@	@	Execute External Program. A NetWare login script command that executes an external program on a Windows 95 or Windows NT workstation.
[Ethernet] switch	commutateur [Ethernet]	An active network device that collects Ethernet frames sent by Ethernet-equipped terminal devices in the network and sends them further into network (in some cases to another device connected to the same switch). In star-topology networks, switch is the "center" of the star. Today switches are "workhorses" of networks. Modern switches use "store and forward" algorithm of transferring frames, in which frames are stored in buffers and sent when destination link is free (this tends to reduce collisions). Switches range from inexpensive basic switches (used mostly with copper twisted pair cables like UTP5) that are used in workgroup LANs to large and sophisticated "single-protocol hardware routers" (using many different physical media types, e.g. fiber optic cables of various types) used in large networks and even in backbone Internet networks.
[root]	[root]	The top-most object in the NDS tree. See root object.
10base2	10Base2	1. An IEEE 802.3 subcommittee specification for running Ethernet over thin coaxial cable. It is an economical way to wire a LAN when long distances are not an issue. 2. The IEEE 802.3 standard for 10 Mbps baseband over thin wire 50 ohms and 200 meters.
10base5	10Base5	1. An IEEE 802.3 subcommittee specification for running Ethernet over thick coaxial cable. It permits longer distances than 10BASE2 but is more difficult to install. 2. The IEEE standard for 10 Mbps baseband over thick wire coaxial cable 50 ohms and 500 meters.
10base-f	10BaseF	The IEEE standard for 10 Mbps baseband over fiber-optic cable.
10base-T	10BaseT	The IEEE 802.3 subcommittee specification for running Ethernet over unshielded twisted pair wiring. 2. The IEEE standard for 10 Mbps baseband over unshielded twisted-pair wire.
132 column switching	basculement au format 132 colonnes	In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, the name of a Terminal Options dialog box used to enable or disable an escape sequence for switching to 132-column format.
1-bit color	couleur 1 bit	The group of colors made possible by using one bit of information. 1-bit color defines two colors. In most instances, 1-bit color is displayed in black and white.
1-bit preview	aperçu 1 bit	The preview assigned to a PostScript image so the user can view the art file inside of another software program while it is being displayed online. For example, you must assign a PC preview to an image that you create in Adobe Illustrator on the Macintosh if you wish to view that image on the PC. A 1-bit preview is black and white.
401k	plan d'épargne retraite 401K	A retirement plan where people can pay part of their income into pensions.
4-bit color	couleur 4 bits	The group of colors made possible by using four bits of information in parallel. 4-bit color defines 16 colors. In 4-bit color, each pixel has a color depth of four bits per pixel. Note that these 16 colors may be defined differently by different file formats or operating systems. For example, the Macintosh and Windows operating systems do not define the basic 16 colors in the same way. Color palettes are often used to define the actual colors rendered for each file format or operating system.
802.2 logical link	liaison logique 802.2	A logical connection on an 802.2 link. This logical link is an object in the NetWare for SAA Services Manager that can either manage or obtain information about NetWare for SAA 1.3B servers.
abend	abend	abnormal end. A serious software failure that halts (brings down) the server.  Used with an agent, to bring a server to an abrupt halt; to crash a server (transitive). Used without an agent, to crash (intransitive).
abend message	message d'abend	A message indicating that a serious problem with the server has caused the server to stop functioning.
abend recovery	récupération après abend	A recovery operation after an abend.
abnormal	anormal	Designates an unexpected or irregular behaviour of software or hardware.
abnormal end	fin anormale	abend. A serious software failure that halts (brings down) the server.
abnormal termination	fin anormale	A system or program failure, or operator action that causes a program such as NetWare APPC, application subsystem, or transaction program to end unsuccessfully.
abort	abandonner	To terminate a process before it is completed.
About	À propos de	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), a choice that displays a window that contains information about an application or product, such as its copyright notice, logo, or release number.
abstract	abstrait	1. In character recognition systems a type of symbol that, unlike a letter or numeral, has no intrinsic meaning and must be defined before it can be interpreted. 2. In programming a data type defined by the operations that can be performed on objects of that type rather than by the properties   of the objects themselves.
Academic License Agreement (ALA)	Accord de Licence ALA	The ALA responds to the evolving requirements of higher education establishments to license, implement and maintain their Novell software investments. The short, simple contract with Novell gives the education customer a 'right to use' the software for an annual fee, thereby eliminating the usual budget constraints involved with software ownership.
accelerator	accélérateur	A hardware device that speeds or enhances the operation of one or more subsystems, leading to improved program performance.
accelerator key	touche d'accès rapide	A combination of keys used to execute an instruction. In ZenWorks for Desktops, the keys used to control the display of the Viewing window during a remote management session.
accept	accepter	Option/Button in connection with scheduled GroupWise items (Appointment, Reminder Note, Task). Scheduled items will not be entered into the user's GroupWise calendar unless he/she selects this option.
access	accéder	Permission granted to a user or group of users to perform various operations.  In software, to view, retrieve, or otherwise invoke objects, which include files, properties, aliases, user lists, file structures, and so on.
access control	contrôle d'accès	The process of restricting or controlling access to objects, files, and directories by granting rights, assigning passwords, setting attributes, and monitoring network security.
access control directive	instruction de contrôle d'accès	A programming code that identifies the method for granting directory access to users or groups. Access control directives include  AllowOverride  AuthGroupFile  AuthGroupMethod  AuthName  AuthType  AuthUserFile  AuthUserMethod  Allow  Deny  Order  Require
access control list	liste de contrôle d'accès	ACL. In eDirectory, an optional, multivalued property of every object. The ACL lists the objects (trustees) that can access the object, along with their explicit rights assignments. Each value contains a complete object (trustee) name, an indication of the type of rights held by the trustee, the specific rights settings, and an indication of whether the rights are inheritable. Any inherited rights filters that have been set on this object are also included.
access control right	droit Contrôle d'accès	A file system right that grants the ability to change the trustee assignments and inherited rights filter of a directory or file.
access list	liste d'accès	A feature that allows a user to assign someone else the rights to access his or her Mailbox as a proxy.
access mode	mode d'accès	
access point	point d'accès	A hardware device or a computer's software that acts as a communication hub. Access points (APs) provide heightened wireless security and extend the physical range of a wireless LAN.
access privilege	privilège d'accès	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), the permission granted to a user or group of users to perform various operations on a file or folder. Within File Manager it is used to change the Read, Write, and Execute permissions on a file or directory.
access rate	vitesse d'accès	AR  In frame relay technology, the maximum transmission rate supported by the access link into the network.
access rate	vitesse d'accès	AR  The maximum data rate of an access channel, in bits per second (bps), usually referring to network access.
access right	droit d'accès	In the NetWare operating system, a privilege that controls the use of, or communication with, objects, files, or directories. Access right determines what a user can do with a particular resource. Resources have default access rights that can be superseded by access rights given to a user.
access rights	droits d'accès	The privileges that are granted to a user, or perhaps to a program, to read, write and erase files in the computer system. Access rights can be tied to a particular server, to directories within that server or to specific programs and data files.
access rights	droits d'accès	Properties that specify the use of or access to particular objects, files, or directories -- for example, a particular group of rights called a trustee assignment can be assigned to a user for a specific file or directory. Access rights may also limit what each user can do with any given resource. Access rights are system-dependent; each operating environment uses its own nomenclature for them (for example, access privileges or trustee rights).
access services	services d'accès	A collective name that identify one of Novell Portal Services Solutions which provides fast and easy access to relevant information at any time and from any location.
access settings	paramètres d'accès	Select this option if you want to edit the access settings.
account	compte	An administrative entity that gives a user access to a system upon login.
account	compte	An administrative entity that gives a user access to a system upon login.
account balance	solde du compte	A value assigned by a NetWare network administator, after installing Accounting services, to limit the amount of network services a user can use.
account disabled	Compte désactivé	Short for "Account Disabled property."
account has expiration date	Le compte a une date d'expiration	Short for "Account Has Expiration Date property."
account restrictions	restrictions de compte	Any restrictions on a user's ability to use network services, including account balance, expiration date, number of current connections, login times and durations allowed, stations allowed to log in from, password required, password length, security equivalences, trustee assignments, and so on.
accountant	comptable	A GroupWise gateway administrator who receives accounting messages for the gateway.
accounting	facturation	A NetWare option that allows a network administrator to charge users for network resources and services by assigning each user an account balance. The account balance diminishes as the user uses the network. Five network resources or services can be controlled through Accounting: Blocks read from server hard disks. Blocks written to server hard disks Amount of time the user is logged in to the server. Amount of data stored on server hard disks. Number of requests serviced by the server
ack wait timeout	timeout du temps d'attente	The time, in ticks, that SPX waits without receiving an acknowledgment for a data packet it sent, before resending the packet.
ACL attribute	attribut ACL	Access control list. In eDirectory, an optional, multivalued property of every object. The ACL lists the objects (trustees) that can access the object, along with their explicit rights assignments. Each value contains a complete object (trustee) name, an indication of the type of rights held by the trustee, the specific rights settings, and an indication of whether the rights are inheritable. Any inherited rights filters that have been set on this object are also included.
across-the-wire migration	migration via réseau	A method of moving data files across the network.
action model	modèle d'opération	a collection of actions
actionable data	données exploitables	The information upon which policies make decisions
activation key	clé d'activation	A hex-a-decimal number (0-9 and A-F) required to unlock the license diskettes for some Novell products.
activation password	mot de passe d'activation	
active connections	connexions actives	
active content	contenu actif	Refers to content on a Web site that is either interactive, such as Internet polls or opt-in features, or dynamic, such as animated GIFs, stock tickers, weather maps, JavaScript applications, embedded objects, streaming video and audio or ActiveX applications. Streaming video and audio rely on browser plug-ins, such as RealPlayer, to display active content.
active file	fichier actif	The active file contains a list of all the discussion groups stored on your server. For each discussion group the low and high article numbers and a flag indicating the type of group are included. Help file pactivefile.htm.
active hub	hub actif	A device that amplifies transmission signals in network topologies. Active hubs are used to add workstations to a network or to extend the cable distance between stations and the server.
Active Server Pages	ASP (Active Server Pages)	ASP - Compile-free application environment for Microsoft's IIS Web Server.
activity	activité	Any operation performed with or on an entity, component, etc.
activity log	journal d'activité	A log that can be used to view the activity history for a document stored in GroupWise library. The Activity Log displays the date and time an activity occurred, the name of the user who performed the activity, the type of activity (opened, checked out, deleted, and so forth) and the document version affected by the activity.
activity log	journal d'activité	A record of how and when a facility has been used.
actuator	actionneur	A disk drive mechanism for moving the read/write head(s) to the location of the desired track on a disk.
adaptation	adaptation	The act or process of adapting.
adapter	adaptateur	A part that connects two computer devices or systems, physically or electrically, and enables them to work together. A special type of adapter, called an expansion board, can be inserted into a computer to give it added capabilities.
adapter reset count	nombre de réinitialisations de l'adaptateur	The number of times the adapter was reset because of internal failures or other calls to the Driver Reset routine.
add self right	droit S'ajouter	A property right that grants a trustee the right to add or remove itself as a value of the property. This right is used only for properties that contain object names as values, such as lists of group members or mailing lists.
additive	additif ou additive	Feature of software: software can be integrated in existing network.
Additive License	licence additive	A license where you can add additional users or servers to a previously acquired product (normally referred to as the "Base Product").
add-on image	image ajoutée	An add-on image is an archived collection of files that will be applied to an existing Windows* installation on a target computer. The existing partitions and files on the target computer are left intact, except for any files that the add-on image might update. Compare with "base image"
address	adresse	A value that uniquely identifies and specifies the location of an element in a computer or computer network, for example: a location in memory or disk storage, a network or portion of a network, a station or other device on a network, and so forth.
address	adresser / spécifier le destinataire	To specify the location of something.  For example, in electronic mail, to specify the e-mail location of a user, resource, or group. In computer usage, to uniquely identify and specify the location of an element in a computer or computer network, for example: a location in memory or disk storage, a network or portion of a network, a station or other device on a network, and so forth.
address assignment range	registre d'assignation d'adresses	
address book	carnet d'adresses	A GroupWise database containing records of addressing and other information for all recipients (users, groups, resources, etc.) known to the GroupWise system.
address field	champ d'adresse	A frame field specifying a physical address in a LAN topology. It is comprised of the control and management fields, specifying the virtual circuit numbering or Data Link Connection Identifier DLCI; the flow control; and the frame discard eligibility DE.
address field	champ d'adresse	In a GroupWise view, the To, CC, or BC field in an item where you type or place user names or IDs.
address list	liste d'adresses	The list of users and/or resources selected as primary, CC or BC recipients of a message.
address mask	masque d'adresse	A number that, when compared by the computer with a network address number, will block out all but the necessary information. For example, in a network that uses XXX.XXX.XXX.YYY and where all computers within the network use the same first address numbers, the number will block out XXX.XXX.XXX and use only the significant numbers in the address.
address resolution cache	cache de résolution d'adresse	An area of software memory that contains entries that map the IP address to the physical address.
address resolution protocol	protocole de résolution d'adresse	A protocol in the Internet Protocol IP suite that enables a host to find the media access control MAC address of a target host on the same physical network when it knows only the targets IP address. ARP dynamically maps Internet addresses to MAC hardware addresses on local networks. It is limited to networks that support hardware broadcast. To create entries, the ARP broadcasts a request with the targets IP address. The target responds with its physical address. The network board adds the physical address to its ARP table and can then send packets to the target.
address space	espace d'adressage	An address space, as explained before, is an isolated, protected chunk of memory that can be used to run NLMs that are isolated from the core of the operating system, the kernel.  These address spaces have names, sizes, and can be created, torn down, deleted, re-started, etc.  They also have attributes like re-startable, so that in the event of a failure, only that section of the server fails; the kernel continues to run..
address space name	nom de l'espace d'adressage	An address space, as explained before, is an isolated, protected chunk of memory that can be used to run NLMs that are isolated from the core of the operating system, the kernel.  These address spaces have names, sizes, and can be created, torn down, deleted, re-started, etc.  They also have attributes like re-startable, so that in the event of a failure, only that section of the server fails; the kernel continues to run.
addressing format	format d'adressage	The addressing format determines how e-mail addresses are displayed in the system address book and in the To field of sent messages. The following formats are available:  userID.post_office.domain@internet_domain_name userID.post_office@internet_domain_name userID@internet_domain_name firstname.lastname@internet_domain_name lastname.firstname@internet_domain_name firstinital lastname@internet_domain_name
addressing rule	règle d'adressage	An addressing rule in GroupWise is a set of instructions used to determine how addresses with specific syntax elements are handled.  The addressing rule searches for a string pattern in an address and replaces it with the syntax defined in the rule. Addressing rules are created at the system level and enabled by domain.
addressing space	espace d'adressage	The total amount of RAM available to the operating system in a NetWare 4 server. This amount can be divided into domains.
adjacency	adjacence	The record that a NetWare Link Services Protocol NLSP router keeps about the state of its connection with a neighbor, and about the attributes of that neighbor.
admin	admin	The Directory Services user with the rights and authority to manage a Directory Services tree and to create or delete Directory objects. ADMIN is created automatically when NetWare 4 installs the first server in a tree?
admin object	objet Admin	A Novell eDirectory User object, created in the process of installing NetWare (4.x and later), that has special privileges; these include supervisory rights to manage an eDirectory objects. When the eDirectory tree is first created, Admin has a trustee assignment to the Tree object. Because the trustee assignment includes the Supervisor object right, Admin can create and manage any object in the tree. Additional objects can later be given the Supervisor object right if you need to decentralize control of the network.
admin thread	thread admin	A thread that is required for GroupWise domain or post office database update and repair.
administration	administration	Tasks performed by the network supervisor or administrator. The supervisor has access rights to all volumes, directories, and files. These tasks may include configuration management, hardware and software maintenance, and performance monitoring.
administration agent	agent administratif	ADA. In GroupWise 5.0, 5.1, and 5.2, the program that updated domain and post office databases, replicated updates throughout the GroupWise system, and synchronized user information with NDS. In GroupWise 5.5 and above, the Message Transfer Agent MTA and the Post Office Agent POA perform these functions.
administration costs	coûts d'administration	Indirect costs charged to a function or activity as its share of general administration costs for the business as a whole.
administrative message	message administratif	Admin updates are sent via administrative messages (such as database updates and admin operations like Add User).
administrative override	paramètre administrateur	The nssoSingleSignon object has a v-GO property page that allows you to set up administrative overrides for Single Sign-on users residing within the container. Some of the options have three settings: User-Defined, Yes, and No. User-Defined leaves the choice to the end user. Yes and No are forced settings and result in disabled options in the user's preferences.
administrative privilege	privilège d'administrateur	Special access and modification privileges granted to a user, typically the administrator. Administrative privileges must be granted in the LAN Server domain before accessing LAN Server network information.
administrative rights	droits d'administrateur	The ability (or the "right") to create and manage objects in the directory tree. In NDS, the User object ADMIN initially is given a trustee assignment to the root, which is another way of saying ADMIN has administrative rights to the entire directory tree.
administrative update	mise à jour administrative	Internal system communication to replicate a change in one system component to all other system components. For example, a user gets added to the GroupWise address book on a specific post office, and througj an administrative update the information for the new user will be replicated on (or distributed to) other GroupWise post-offices and/or GroupWise domains.
administrative user	administrateur	A user that has been granted administrative rights.
administrator	administrateur	The person who sets up a server, creates user login accounts and passwords, creates groups, sets security, and maintains the server.
administrator object	objet Administrateur	Another name for User object ADMIN.
administrator role	rôle d'administrateur	A predefined set of GroupWise gateway (such as GroupWise Internet Agent or GroupWise WebAccess) administrative tasks assigned to the GroupWise user. There are four administrator roles: operator, accountant, postmaster, and foreign operator.
advanced	avancé	
Advanced Action	opération avancée	An action that does not belong to the group of Basic Action.
Advanced Technical Training	Advanced Technical Training	Novell Education's Advanced Technical Training (ATT) delivers advanced instruction and hands-on labs focused on making one Net a reality in your organization.
advertise	annoncer	The process by which devices on a network inform other devices on the network of their existence, services, or other information.
advertising	processus d'annonce	The process by which devices or services on a network inform other devices on the network of their existence. NetWare uses the Service Advertising Protocol SAP to do this.
advertising packet	paquet d'annonce	A packet sent by a network device to broadcast its existence, services, or other information to other network devices.
aes event	événement AES	AES stands for asynchronous event service. Allows LAN drivers to schedule a future event.
afp server object	objet Serveur AFP	A leaf object in the NDS tree that represents an AppleTalk Filing Protocol AFP server. The AFP server enables workstations to share files and programs using the AppleTalk protocol.
agent	agent	In GroupWise, a basic component of a system. GroupWise Post Office Agent (POA) and Message Transfer Agent (MTA) are required to run basic GroupWise system.
agent	agent	In the client/server model, the agent is the part of the system that performs information preparation and exchange on behalf of a client or server application.
Agent Pusher	distributeur d'agents	A ZENworks management service used to deliver ("push") agent software to client machines.
aggregate liability	responsabilité globale	A total legal responsibility for one's acts or omissions.
aggregate number	nombre total	A total number of smth. Usually applies to the number of users.
aggregated route	route concaténée	Because the RIP I routers external to the network do not know the subnets used within a network, RIP I requires that all subnet routes are aggregated into a single network route when they are advertised externally. To accomplish this, all subnets must be contained within a single network boundary.Subnetting with RIP I and RIP II.
aggregated routes	routes concaténées	Because the RIP I routers external to the network do not know the subnets used within a network, RIP I requires that all subnet routes are aggregated into a single network route when they are advertised externally. To accomplish this, all subnets must be contained within a single network boundary.----Subnetting with RIP I and RIP II.
agreement	accord	An agreement is made when two people reach an understanding about a particular issue, including their obligations, duties and rights. While agreement is sometimes used to mean contract -- a legally binding oral or written agreement -- it is actually a broader term, including understandings that might not rise to the level of a legally binding contract.
alarm	alarme	A warning signal used to inform a GroupWise user of an appointment.
alarm management	gestion des alarmes	Novell specific term. Control for managing the necessary actions when an alarm arises.
alert	alerte	A message sent by management devices to management consoles to inform network supercisors of thresholds reached and discrepancies on the network.
alert handler	gestionnaire d'alertes	The handler of alerts. See "handler" and "alert."
alert message	message d'alerte	A visual signal, usually in the form of a pop-up, informing the computer user of the condition it was configured to specify. For example, an alert message can tell the user that a program is not responding, or that a connection to a server is being retried in the background, or that resource thresholds have been reached, or that the printer needs paper.
algorithm	algorithme	A prescribed set of well-defined rules or processes for arriving at a solution to a problem.
alias	alias	An alias is a property of either a user or post office object. It allows you to send and receive mail under a different name.
alias	alias	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), a named electronic mail address in Mailer for mailing to a group of users. By creating an alias for a group of users, you can type one name instead of each individual name to send electronic mail messages to the group.
alias	alias	An alternative name assigned to a system, to a program, to an electronic mail address, or to another object.
alias	alias	An alternative label for some object, such as a file or data collection.
alias object	objet Alias	An NDS object that points to another object at a different location in the NDS tree. An Alias object allows a user to access an object outside of the user's normal working context.
align	aligner	To bring into precise adjustment or correct relative position.
all properties rights	droits Toutes les propriétés	A type of rights assignment that applies to all the properties of an object. A specific individual property rights assignment overrides an All Properties rights assignment, but only for the specific property. The All Properties rights assignment still applies to all the other properties.
All rights reserved	Tous droits réservés	String usually used with copyright information.
all rigths reserved	tous droits réservés	In Novell software, user assistance, license agreements, and other materials, a phrase used to refer to the intellectual and property rights of a product.
allocate	allouer	To set apart; to designate. For example, "to set apart a range of the available memory in a computer."
allocation	allocation	The act of putting one thing to another; a placing. In computing, often a memory allocation.
allocator	allocateur	An operating system component with authority to allot or deal out or apportion the resource.
alpha channel	canal alpha	The high-order 8 bits of a 32-bit graphics pixel used to manipulate the remaining 24 bits for purposes of coloring or masking. In computer graphics, memory associated with each pixel used to store the fractional coverage of the pixel.
ambiguous filename	nom de fichier ambigu	A filename that contains either of the wildcard characters ? or *.  When you replace characters in a filename with these wildcard characters, you create an ambiguous filename and can easily reference more than one file in a single command.
analyze/fix	analyser/réparer	GroupWise Mailbox/Library Maintenance operation.
ancestor	ancêtre	upper nodes in a data tree including a parent node
anchor	ancre	A tag in an HTML document that defines a section of text, an icon, or other element as a link to another element in the document or to another document or file.
animate	animer	Display something in animation.
annual period	annuité	A period of one year.
anonymous	anonyme	Having unknown or withheld authorship or agency.
answer mode	mode réponse	A setting that allows a modem to answer an incoming call automatically. It is used in all fax machines.
antialiasing	lissage	A software technique (algorithm) for smoothing the jagged appearance of curved or diagonal lines caused by poor resolution on a display screen.
anti-piracy program	programme anti-piratage	The purpose of the program is to ensure that Novell, its partners, and sales channel receive the appropriate revenues for the sale and use of Novell products and services and to assist the innocent victim end-users.
AOT file	fichier AOT	Application Object Template file. This file is used to create application objects. It is created by the SnAppShot program that come with ZENworks*.
API	API	Application Programming Interface. A set of routines, protocols, and tools used to build software applications. Most operating environments provide APIs so that programmers can write applications consistent with the operating environment.
append	annexer	To add to. For example, to add records to an existing database or to add selected on-screen text to data already existing in the clipboard or in a file on disk. Appended text is always added to the  end of the data.
AppleShare software	logiciel AppleShare	Networking software from Apple Computer, Inc., that enables a Macintosh computer to function as a file server in an AppleTalk network.  Also, AppleShare workstation software that allows a Macintosh computer to access an AppleShare server.
applet	applet	Short for Java applet.  Small Java programs that are application oriented rather than server oriented.  Java applets can be embedded in an HTML page and executed by a browser without waiting for server processing. This means that Java applets are particularly useful for processing intensive or time-sensitive elements of a Web page, such as multimedia, animation, or user-interactive forms.
appliance	applicatif	A device that is dedicated to a specific function in contrast to a general-purpose computer. Many consider the router the first network appliance.
applicant	demandeur	A person who formally requests something.
application	application	A program (or set of programs) that makes calls to the operating system and manipulates data files, allowing a user to perform a specific job (such as accounting, networking, or word processing).
application agent	agent d'application	In GroupWise WorkFlow Professional, an agent that references an executable program, such as a desktop application. An application agent can use the workflow attachments as input.
Application Explorer	Explorateur d'applications	Application Launcher and Application Explorer are 32-bit applications that support Windows* 95, Windows 98, Windows NT*, and Windows 2000. When a user starts Application Launcher/Explorer, Application Launcher/Explorer reads NDS to provide access to the applications the user has been given rights to.
application form	formulaire de demande	A form to fill in to request or sign for something.
application interface	interface d'application	A set of routines and associated conventions, for a particular programming language, that give programmers access to a system, networking services, file structures, and so forth, to use in writing an application.
Application Launcher	programme de lancement d'applicatifs	A NetWare utility that allows users to run applications that were previously configured by a network administrator. The applications are displayed as icons. Users double-click the icon to launch the application.
application program interface (API)	interface de programmation d'applications (API - Application Program Interface)	An application program interface (API) is the specific method prescribed by a computer operating system or by another application program by which a programmer writing an application program can make requests of the operating system or application.
application server	serveur d'applications	Software on a server on which an application can be run or executed. An application server that runs Java servlets is called a servlet engine.
apply	appliquer	To put into action.
appnotes	AppNotes	Novell Application Notes Novells monthly technical journal. It covers design and optimization strategies, management, theory of operations, implementation guidelines, third-party product integration, and programming techniques.
appointment	rendez-vous	A GroupWise item type which lets users invite people to and schedule resources for meetings or events. The date, time, and location for the meeting can be scheduled.
appointment conflict	conflit de rendez-vous	Overlapping/concurrent appointment times
appointment time	heure de rendez-vous	Time when appointment is scheduled to start.
archive	archiver	verb:   put into an archive  To copy files to a storage device (such as a diskette, magnetic tape, or optical disc) for long-term storage or backup purposes.  An archive, in computing, is a bundle of other files contained in one file itself. Technically, archives do not compress, they put together files and their structure, but in reality, many archive formats feature built-in compression, especially on non-Unix platforms.   Ubiquitous amongst Unix and Unix-like operating systems is the tape archive format, tar. Originally intended for use for transferring files on tape, it is generally used to combine files before they are compressed, usually by gzip or bzip2. Other formats include ar and shar.
archive	archives / archivage	Data transferred to long-term storage media (for example, optical disks, magnetic tape) or, the physical location of such data. noun:   a depository containing historical records and documents
archive needed attribute	attribut Archivage souhaité	A file system attribute indicating that the file has been changed since the last time it was backed up. NetWare sets this attribute when the file is modified, and clears it when the file is backed up. It is shown in attribute listings but cant be set by users.
archive set	ensemble d'archives	In GroupWise document management, a group of documents in an archive directory. The scope of an archive set is determined by the number of bytes the system administrator limits the archive directory to.
area	zone	routing area  An administrative domain of connected IPX networks with the same area address. Users in a routing area have network-layer access to the same services.
area	zone	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), a selected portion of the drawing pane in the Icon Editor primary window.
area address	adresse de zone	The area network number and mask that together define a NetWare Link Services Protocol (NLSP) routing area.
area border router	routeur d'encadrement de zones	ABR  An Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) router used to connect administrative domains (called areas) to a central backbone area on a large internetwork.
area mask	masque de zone	A 32-bit hexadecimal number that indicates how much of an area network number identifies a routing area, and how much identifies a network within the routing area. A typical area mask is FFFFFF00.
argument	argument	An independent variable, used with an operator or passed to a subprogram that uses the argumetn to carry out specific operations.
ARP Cache Stale Timeout	timeout caduc du cache ARP	A configurable TCP/IP address resolution parameter used to specify the timeout period for an entry to be removed from the ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) table, if the entry has not been used for some time.
ARP Cache Update Timeout	timeout de la mise à jour du cache ARP	A configurable TCP/IP address resolution parameter used to specify the timeout period for an entry to be removed from the ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) table, if the entry has not been updated within the specified timeout period.
arrange	disposer	To put into a specific order or relation; dispose.
array	tableau	A named, ordered collection of data elements that have identical attributes; or an ordered collection of identical structures.
article	article	The fundamental unit of discussion groups. An article consists of header information and body text.
artificial relevance adjustment	paramétrage subjectif des pertinences	In QuickFinder, a feature that allows administrators to artificially control the relevance of search results. This means that they can decide what hits should and should not show up high in the search results list.
ascending	croissant	In the Common Desktop Environment, a sort order in the File Manager where items are arranged so that names are in alphabetical order when moving from left to right or top to bottom, or where values increase when moving from left to right or top to bottom.
assign	assigner	To appoint to a post or duty.
assign	assigner	To pass a value to a variable or parameter.
association	association	A functional connection between an element and a data object or an action object. For example, if an icon and an action are associated, clicking the icon invokes the action association.
association	association	The mechanism used by DirXML to establish and maintain a correspondence between an object in NDS and an application object. The driver provides a unique key value for each application object, and DirXML manages the storage of those key values in NDS.
Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line (ADSL)	liaison numérique à débit asymétrique (ADSL); ligne ADSL	Transmission procedure that transmits data about one hundred times faster than ISDN in the telephone network
asynchronous transmission	transmission asynchrone	A data transmission method in which characters are sent one bit at a time. Each character has a start and a stop bit to synchronize signals between the sending device and receiving device. This allows a character to be sent any time after the preceding character has been sent.
ATTACH	ATTACH	The login script command that authenticates users to additional servers. The format for this command is ATTACH [server[/username[;password]]]
attach	attacher	To establish a connection between a workstation and a NetWare server. The server assigns each client a connection number and attaches each to the server's login directory. For Macintosh clients, this restricts the user to viewing server resources without connecting to the server.
attach	joindre	In GroupWise, to encapsulate an object, such as an image, data, or executable file, within an electronic mail message.
attachment	attache	A connection to a network server object.
attachments	pièces jointes	Files attached to email messages.
attribute	attribut	A technique for describing access to and properties of files and directories within a filing system. For NetWare files, attributes include Read, Write, Create, Delete, and Execute Only (prevents files from being deleted or copied). For NetWare directories, attributes include Read, Write, Create, Execute, and Hidden (hides information about the directory from file listings, preventing unauthorized access, deletion, or copying).
attribute authority	autorité de délivrance d'attributs	The authority that provides attribute information. The Attribute Authority relies on the Authentication Authority to provide it with authentication information so that it can retrieve attributes for the appropriate entity or user. The Attribute Authority must know that the entity requesting the attribute has been authenticated to the system.
attribute security	sécurité par attributs	A component of file system security that assigns special properties to individual files or directories. Sometimes referred to as flags.
attribute type	type d'attribut	In NDS, a letter or letters that distinguish the type of object name, such as O or OU same as name type or CN.
Attribute-Component Enable Flag	drapeau d'activation attribut-composant	Flag used to enable attribute-component.
audit	auditer	To examine and verify records.
audit data file	fichier de données d'audit	A system log created when auditing is enabled at the volume or Directory Services container level. At the volume level it stores a record of all audited transactions; at the Directory Services level it also stores all activities performed by the auditor. Also called "audit file."
audit file	fichier d'audit	A system log created when auditing is enabled at the volume or Directory Services container level. At the volume level it stores a record of all audited transactions; at the Directory Services level it also stores all activities performed by the auditor. Also called "audit data file."
audit file object	objet Fichier d'audit	An NDS leaf object that represents an audit trail's log of events associated with a container, workstation, or volume. The Audit File object can have access to various objects in an NDS tree through properties assigned to those objects. For example, a container object that is audited has an Audit File Link property pointing to the Audit File object.  The Audit File object is created by an auditing program and can be viewed using NetWare Administrator.
audit history	historique d'audit	A system log, created when auditing is enabled at the volume container level, which stores a record of all activities carried out by the auditor.
audit history file	fichier historique d'audit	A system log, created when auditing is enabled at the volume container level, which stores a record of all activities carried out by the auditor.
Audit Log Provider	Fournisseur du journal d'audit	Provides audit log messages generated by a VPN server.
audit trail	suivi d'audit	In NetWare, a compilation of records relating to security events on a file server. An audit trail consists of an NDS Audit File object and a sequence of audit data files.  The Audit File object and its NDS properties define the audit configuration, and define the rights of other NDS entities to access the Audit File object and its audit files.  The sequence of audit data files include the current audit file (where data is currently being recorded), up to 15 old online audit files, and a sequence of offline audit files.
audit trail	suivi d'audit	In NetWare, a compilation of records relating to security events on a file server. An audit trail consists of an NDS Audit File object and a sequence of audit data files. The Audit File object and its NDS properties define the audit configuration, and define the rights of other NDS entities to access the Audit File object and its audit files. The sequence of audit data files include the current audit file (where data is currently being recorded), up to 15 old online audit files, and a sequence of offline audit files.
auditing	audit	In NetWare, the collecting and examining of records to make sure that the server's resources are protected by the server Trusted Computing Base (TCB).
auditing	audit	In NetWare, the collecting and examining of records to make sure that the servers resources are protected by the server Trusted Computing Base TCB.
auditor	auditeur	An individual authorized by an organization to use the NetWare network's auditing mechanisms to identify attempted or successful access by users to unauthorized information.
auditor container login	login de l'auditeur au conteneur	In NetWare auditing, a menu option in the AUDITCON utility that allows an individual designated as an auditor to begin the process of auditing an NDS container.
authenticate	authentifier	To establish the valid identity of a network user through checking the username and password and to allow that user to log in and use the network.
authenticate to a server	authentifier auprès d'un serveur	Connecting through SSL requires that you have a digital certificate to authenticate to the LDAP server.
authenticated connection	connexion authentifiée	
authentication	authentification	The process of establishing your identity to a network system. This process provides network security.
authentication database	base de données d'authentification	A list of valid remote system IDs or associated data terminal equipment DTE addresses and a password. Each entry represents a valid partner that can communicate with a given interface.
authenticator	authentificateur	Authenticator class {0} failed to load.
author	auteur	In GroupWise document management, a user who is the owner of a document.
authored	créé par	Folder name under Documents in GroupWise Client. It contains document references for all the documents a user has authored.
authored agent	agent assigné	In GroupWise WorkFlow, an agent assigned to a step by the workflow author.
authoritative DNS server	serveur DNS expert	A DNS server that supports the DNS zone. A NetWare 5 DNS server can be authoritative for multiple zones.
Authoritative Source	source experte	The definitive source from which client configuration rules will be applied for security and other one-to-many configurations.
Authorized Beta Test Site	Site de Test Bêta Agréé	Website qualified by Novell to benefit from the early look at a product, the opportunity to influence what the shipping product will look like, receiving technical support, and the resulting knowledge.
auto endcap	fin de capture automatique	A NetWare printing parameter that specifies that the captured data be closed and sent to the printer after exiting an application.
Auto mode	mode Auto	In ZENworks for Desktops, an imaging mode where a computer is imaged automatically, based on any applicable eDirectory policies and settings. Also called auto-imaging.
auto send/retrieve	envoyer/récupérer automatiquement	In GroupWise Client, a feature used to periodically check for new items. This feature is used for POP3/IMAP/NNTP accounts served by GroupWise Client.
auto-date	rappel automatique	In GroupWise, a feature that is used to schedule recurring appointments, tasks, and reminder notes. Auto-dated items can be scheduled by formula, dates, or example.
auto-delete	suppression automatique	In GroupWise, a feature that automatically removes sent items from your Mailbox after recipients have deleted the items and emptied them from the Trash.
auto-imaging	création automatique d'image	In ZENworks for Desktops, an imaging mode where a computer is imaged automatically, based on any applicable eDirectory policies and settings.
autonomous system	système autonome	AS. A collection of routers and networks that exchange routing information using a routing protocol, such as RIP or OSPF.
autonomous system border router	routeur d'encadrement de systèmes autonomes	A gateway that runs the OSPF protocol and another protocol, such as EGP or RIP, and which allows OSPF routers in the OSPF autonomous system to exchange information with other autonomous systems or domains running a different protocol, such as EGP or RIP.
auxiliary sheet	page auxiliaire	A sheet supported by print system. Also an attribute supported by NDPS Novell Developer Kit (NDK).
back end	interface dorsale	In client/server computing, the part of an application that runs on the server and handles processing for the application. For example, the print services back end consists of all the components necessary to remove each job from the queue and direct it to the appropriate printer.
Back Link	lien en amont	An NDS schema attribute that represents a selectable property. When NDS creates a new external reference for an object not stored on the local server, it locates that object on the other replica's server and stores a Back Link attribute on it. The Back Link attribute points back to the external reference. Back links maintain connectivity between the server holding the external reference and the server that holds the object.
back linker	processus de liaison en amont (back linker)	A process that verifies external references by checking to see if the original entry still exists and if the reason for its existence is still valid. If the external reference is no longer needed, the back link process removes it.
back to top	retour vers le haut	A link on novell.com web pages that refers to the top of this page.
back up	sauvegarder	To copy data (file, directory, or volume) to storage media such as floppy disks, cartridge tapes, hard disks, or other media. Data that is backed up can be restored if the original is corrupted or destroyed.
backbone	épine dorsale	The central part of a network, which carries the heaviest traffic, transmits at the fastest rate, and connects smaller networks that have lower data-transfer rates.
backbone network	réseau épine dorsale	The primary connectivity mechanism of a hierarchical distributed system. It ensures that all systems that have connectivity to an intermediate system on the backbone have connectivity to one another.
background	arrière-plan	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE):  1. The underlying area of a window on which elements, such as buttons and lists, are displayed.  2. A location within a selection scope in the OSF/Motif Style Guide that is not covered by any element that can be selected.
backlink	lien en amont	A pointer to an NDS object on another server. A backlink indicates that an object in a replica has an ID on a server where the replica doesn't exist.  Also, the NDS process that verifies backlinks.
backoff	se retirer momentanément	When a device attempts to transmit data and it finds trouble, the sending device must try again. It may not try again immediately. It may 'back off' for a little time so the trouble on the line can be cleared. This happens with LANs. For example, an earlier attempt to transmit may have resulted in a collision in a CSMA/CD (Carrier Sense Multiple Access/Collision Detection) Local Area Network (LAN). So the device 'backs off,' waits a little and then tries again. How long it waits is determined by preset protocols.
backout	retour à l'état antérieur	In NetWare's Transaction Tracking System (TTS), the process of halting an incomplete transaction and leaving the database in its original condition.
backup	sauvegarde	A duplicate of data (file, directory, volume), copied to a storage device (floppy diskette, cartridge tape, hard disk). A backup can be retrieved and restored if the original is corrupted or destroyed.
backup administrator	administrateur des sauvegardes	An NDS administrator role for backing up the file system
backup call	appel en sauvegarde	Option in the Configuration menu. A backup call enhances the reliability of your WAN. It ensures that permanent connections are maintained even if your primary WAN call destination goes down. As a result, you avoid unnecessary delays and maintain high reliability over your WAN connection.  Backup calls are also useful for ensuring filtering reliability. By default, all filters that currently affect a primary call will affect a configured backup call. If a primary call should go down, the configured backup call will maintain your filtering configurations.
backup engine	moteur de sauvegarde	A module loaded on a host server that contains the backup and restore interface. It reads and translates user requests, determines the type of session being initiated, and decides which modules to activate.
backup host	hôte de sauvegarde	A NetWare server that has a storage device and a storage device controller attached.
backup/restore mailbox	sauvegarder/restaurer la boîte aux lettres	In GroupWise Administrator, an option that allows the administrator to enable backup and restore operations within the GroupWise system.
backward compatibility	compatibilité avec les versions précédentes	In programming, the ability of a function to behave in the same way as it did in previous versions of a software product.  In application software, the ability of a version of a software product to accept and manipulate user files created in earlier versions of that product.
bad address cache	cache des adresses incorrectes	A server memory cache containing the addresses of servers with which the server is not able to communicate.  Further requests to servers whose addresses are in the bad address cache, are considered to be invalid.
bad block	bloc défectueux	A damaged storage media position.
bad correlator count	nombre de corrélateurs défectueux	A NetWare LAN driver statistic for token rings. Increments when a network board responds with a request for data from the file server that the file server does not have. The ECB or some other code may be corrupted. Eventually, this type of error will down the server. If this counter is non-zero, you should try to find the software that is corrupting the data.
bandwidth	bande passante	The carrying capacity of a circuit, usually measured in bits per second (bps) for digital circuits, or hertz (Hz) for analog circuits.
bandwidth-on-demand	bande passante sur demande	In frame relay, the capacity in an individual virtual circuit to burst above the committed information rate CIR; also known as dynamic allocation of bandwidth.
banner	bannière	In online presentations such as a menu utility or a browser window or online help, information about the online presentation, which could include such data as software name, date and time, title or current context, or version number.
banner page	page bannière	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), a field in the Print dialog box for specifying the text that is sent to the print command to be used as the title of the print job.
banner page	page bannière	The first page of a print job that supplies information about a print job, such as the name of the user who initiated the job, and the time and date of printing.
base image	image de base	A base image is an image of all the partitions and data on a source computer's storage devices, such as hard disks and Jaz* drives. Normally, such an image is prepared with the intent to completely replace the contents of a target computer's storage devices.
base license	licence de base	In an MLA environment, license objects are required for each tree but are optional for each server. There are two types of license objects, the server base license object and the connection license object.
base product	produit de base	In Novell's licensing, the product to which additive licenses allow to add additional users or servers.
bash	shell bash	Bash, an acronym for "Bourne-again shell," is the default or standard shell on most Linux systems. The shell's job is to obey your commands so that you can interact with your Linux system. When you're finished entering commands, you may instruct the shell to exit or logout, at which point you'll be returned to a login prompt.
Basic Action	opération de base	One of primary actions that exteNd Composer provides.
basic authentication	authentification de base	The most common type of HTTP authentication. If an HTTP client, such as a web browser, requests a page that is part of a protected  realm, the server responds with a 401 Unauthorized status code and includes a WWW-Authenticate header field in its response. This header field must contain at least one authentication challenge applicable to the requested page. The client then makes another request, this time including an Authentication header field which contains the client's credentials. If the server accepts the credentials, it returns the requested page. Otherwise, it returns another 401 Unauthorized response to inform the client the authentication has failed. One weakness of this type of scheme is that the user's credentials are transmitted "in the clear" and hence are susceptible to appropriation by eavesdroppers.
basic GroupWise system	système GroupWise de base	A GroupWise system that consists of a single domain with one post office, a document library, and one or more users. Every GroupWise  system starts as a basic GroupWise system.
batch file	fichier de traitement par lots	An executable file containing a sequence of several commands that are carried out in turn when the file is run. A DOS batch file has a .bat extension.
baud rate	débit en bauds	In serial communication, the speed at which a signal changes when data is transmitted asynchronously from one digital device to another, such as over a modem or between a computer and printer.
beacon type	type de signal	A type of signal on a token ring cabling system that is sent when a network board is set to use the wrong data rate. This is a general LAN driver statistic item maintained by Novells Topology Specific Module for token ring LAN drivers.
Beast	entité	The name given by Novell Storage Services* (NSS) to the objects it supports. Beasts include objects such as files, directories, volumes, data streams or extended attributes. See if you want to keep your suggestion or change it accordingly.
beginning URL	début de l'URL	The beginning part of a URL, such as "http://" or "www".
benchmark	banc d'essai	This benchmark testing restriction applies to You if You are a software developer or vendor or if You are performing testing on the Software at the direction of or on behalf of a software developer or vendor.
Benchmark testing	tests d'évaluation des performances	A test that carried out in order to validate and compare functionality of a product against Similar Products.
Beowulf	système Beowulf	A network of relatively inexpensive computers (including PCs), potentially using different processors and hardware architectures, united by Linux and special system-level software into a massively parallel computing system.
Best Storage Software	Meilleure solution de stockage	Best product or service that manages the remote storage and retrieval of, and access to, information and data across networks.
Best Systems Management Tool	Meilleur outil de gestion des systèmes	The tool that best assists system administrators manage a network.
beta	bêta	A pre-release version of software, distributed to a selected group of users to test.
Beta Agreement	Accord Bêta	Legal agreement between an entity or a person and Novell, Inc.
binary data	données binaires	
binary search technique	technique de recherche binaire	A type of search algorithm that seeks an item, with a known name, in an ordered list by first comparing the sought item to the item at the middle of the list’s order. The search then divides the list in two, determines in which half of the order the item should be, and repeats this process until the sought item is found.
bind	liaison	To link a protocol to a Network Interface Card (NIC) or device driver. Without linking the protocol to the interface card or device driver, the interface card or driver cannot process data packets.
BIND	BIND	The NetWare command that links a protocol and a board or network interface.
bindery	Bindery	A network database, in versions of the NetWare network operating system earlier than 4.0, that contains definitions for entities such as users, groups, and workgroups
bindery context	contexte de Bindery	The container object in the NDS tree that enables NDS to provide network information to servers and programs that depend on using the NetWare bindery.
bindery hopping	passage d'une Bindery à une autre	The means by which a user can view the objects located within various binderies by locating different servers on different trees.
bindery object	objet Bindery	A leaf object placed in the NDS tree during an upgrade or migration from an earlier version of NetWare. Usually, NDS cannot identify the specific object, and bindery-based clients must access it with older NetWare utilities by using bindery services.
bindery object restriction	restriction d'objet Bindery	A single-valued integer attribute used by bindery objects. It consists of an error code that indicates the reason the bindery object cannot be represented as a directory object.
bindery queue object	objet File d'attente de Bindery	A leaf object in the NDS tree that represents a print queue. The object is placed in the NDS tree during a migration or upgrade from a previous version of NetWare. NDS cannot identify such objects, and they must be accessed using older NetWare utilities.
bindery services	services de Bindery	An NDS feature that creates bindery context, allowing bindery-based servers, clients, and utilities to coexist on an NDS network. In bindery services, NDS simulates a flat nonhierarchical structure for the objects within a container object. Only the leaf objects of the container are represented in this structure, creating limitations for bindery services users that other NDS users do not have.
bindery type	type de Bindery	A selectable property of a NDS object.
biometrics	caractéristiques biométriques	Biological characteristics of a human being, e.g., fingerprints or retina.
BIOS identification bytes	octets d'identification du BIOS	A ZENworks Inventory information item designating the Byte in the BIOS that indicates the computer model.
bit bucket	bit bucket	An imaginary trash can. The phrase "it went into the bit bucket" means the data was lost.
bit set	jeu de bits	A bit that has been set.
BlackBerry client	client BlackBerry	In Novell ZENworks for Handhelds, the software that manages devices that use the BlackBerry wireless platform.
blacklist	liste noire	A list of locations (URLs) or E-mail addresses which have been identified as sources of spam.  Any E-mail originating from a blacklisted source will be blocked, i.e., automatically rejected.
blade image	image du serveur lame	The storage image of a blade server. See also blade server for a definition.
blade install	installation de serveur lame	Installation of a blade server. See also blade server for a definition.
blade server	serveur lame	A server on a card, i.e. a single motherboard that contains a full computer system, including processor(s), memory, network connections, and associated electronics
blank step	étape vide	In GroupWise WorkFlow Professional, a feature used to add a step to the workflow.
blind copy	copie masquée	BC. A GroupWise feature used to send a copy of a message to a recipient without the knowledge of the other recipients. Only the sender and the blind copy recipient know that a blind copy was sent.
blob	seuil blob	Binary large objects (blobs) are the database structures where document files are stored, such as on a large-capacity hard disk accessible to the Post Office Agent (POA). A document, its versions, and related objects are stored in one blob. Blobs are both compressed and encrypted.
block	bloc	A set of continuous bits or bytes that make up a definable quantity of information.
block allocation size	taille d'allocation de blocs	Setting used to specify the number of memory pages to include in a total block of memory that NetWare Server for OS/2 allocates from OS/2. One memory page is equal to 4 KB of memory.
block cache	cache de blocs	A type of cache eDirectory that stores only physical blocks from the hard disk without any ordering or organization of the information contained in the block. Compare with "entry cache".
block list	liste de blocage	GroupWise feature permitting users to indicate which individual e-mail addresses or entire Internet domains the GroupWise system should block so that mail from these addresses or domains will not be delivered to their mailbox.
block suballocation	sous-allocation de bloc	The division of partially-used disk blocks into smaller, 512-byte blocks. Block suballocation allows the last part of several files to share one disk block rather than using one disk block for each file, using disk space more efficiently
blocked address list	liste des adresses bloquées	GroupWise feature permitting users to indicate which individual Internet addresses the GroupWise system should block so that mail from these addresses will not be delivered to their mailbox.  The blocked address list is a sub-list of the block list.
blocking	blocage	
Blur Image	estomper une image	To render obscure by making the form or outline of confused and uncertain, as by soiling; to smear; to make indistinct and confused; as, to blur manuscript by handling it while damp; to blur the impression of a woodcut by an excess of ink.  Become glassy; lose clear vision.
board	carte	Technically, a network interface board includes all of the physical and logical connections between your computer, or other device, and the transmission medium. Typically, it is a logic board you install in a computer to connect it to a cable’s connector. However, network interface boards may be an interface card, a portion of the device’s logic board, software and a generic hardware port, or a number of external devices.
body part	partie du corps du message	In X.400, any of the different types of components that can comprise a message. One or more body parts make up the body. Each component used must adhere to some standard that is identified in the message header and recognized by the transfer protocol.
boot	démarrer	To start or restart a computer and ready it for use. A "cold" boot is done by turning on the power switch. A "warm" boot resets the computer without turning off the power source.
boot directory	répertoire de démarrage	
boot diskette	disquette de démarrage	
boot file	fichier de démarrage	
boot partition	partition de démarrage	
BOOTP	BOOTP	Bootstrap Protocol. An Internet protocol used by a diskless workstation to discover its own IP address, the IP address of a BOOTP server on the network, and a file that can be loaded into memory to boot the machine. Using BOOTP, a workstation can boot without a hard or floppy disk drive.
Bootstrap Protocol	protocole Bootstrap	BOOTP (Bootstrap Protocol) is a protocol that lets a network user be automatically configured (receive an IP address) and have an operating system boot or initiate without user involvement. The BOOTP Server, managed by a network administrator, automatically assigns the IP address from a pool of addresses for a certain duration of time.   BOOTP is the basis for a more advanced network manager protocol, the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP).
Bot	bot	Short for Robot. A program designed to search for information on the Internet with little human intervention.
bottom line	résultat	The last line in an audit; the line that shows profit or loss.  The profit figure used as the earnings figure in the earnings-per-share calculation of a company to comply with.
bottom-up upgrade	mise à niveau ascendante (bottom-up)	An eDirectory upgrade strategy.  With a bottom-up upgrade strategy, you upgrade or migrate noncritical servers at the bottom of the eDirectory tree first, and then upgrade or migrate servers in order, up the tree.
boundary router	routeur de limite	A type of router that attaches an Open Shortest Path First OSPF area to the backbone area. An area boundary router has at least one interface in an OSPF area and one interface in the backbone area.
box	zone	In graphical user interfaces, a box is an enclosed area, resembling a window, on the screen.
branch	branche	A node intermediate between the root and the leaves in some types of logical tree structure, such as the directory tree. In the NetWare Directory tree, a container object and all the objects it holds, which can include other container objects.
branch office management	Branch Office Management	Tool for managing branch offices. It is targeted at corporations who have satellite offices with users who require the same level of service as exists at the corporate office.
branding scheme	modèle de la marque	The area of the portal page that contains information that will always appear on the page. Novell® Portal Services includes a selection of predefined looks (based upon an XSL/XSLT stylesheet) that you can assign to your branding scheme. You may also copy and edit the predefined looks to customize them for your environment.
Breadcrumb trail	piste de navigation	Breadcrumb navigation displays the current page's context within the site structure.  A breadcrumb trail is a navigation tool that allows a user to see the path they have taken through a Web site's hierarchy to reach the current page. The term breadcrumb trail comes from the story of Hansel and Gretel, who left a trail of breadcrumbs as they walked through the forest so they could trace their way back home.  The breadcrumb trail, which is usually located at the top of the Web page, allows the user to click on any page in the  breadcrumb trail and go directly to that page.
breakpoint	point d'interruption	A location in a program that brings up the debugger.
bridge	pont	A device that connects two or more physical networks, forwarding frames between networks based on information in the data-link header. Because it operates at the data-link layer, it is transparent to the network-layer protocols.
bridge Novell extension method	méthode d'extension Novell de type pont	An extension method provided by Novell that works as a bridge.
bring down	mettre hors service	To halt the operation of, as in "to bring down the server."
bring down	placer	To bring down an image is to paste a computer's image onto another computer (or to multiple computers). Synonymous with "lay down"
bring up	mettre en service	To start the operation of, as in "to bring up the server."
broadcast	diffusion	A packet delivery service in which all hosts on a network receive a copy of any frame that is designated for broadcast.
broadcast	diffuser	To send a message to all connected nodes on a data communications network (as opposed to sending a message to a single node).
broker	courtier	Short for "Broker object."
Broker object	objet Courtier	An NDS object associated with NDPS that represents broker.nlm and provides three network support services not previously available in NetWare: the Service Registry Service (SRS), Event Notification Service (ENS), and Resource Management Service (RMS)
browse	parcourir	Short for "Browse right."
browse	parcourir	To scan a collection of items, such as a database, a file manager view, a list box, Web pages, or text files, for a particular item or for items of interest. To browse implies observing rather than changing information.
Browse right	droit Parcourir	An object right that grants the right to see an object in the NDS tree. The name of the object is returned when a search is made that matches the object
browser	navigateur	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE) Application Builder, a window that provides a symbolic, hierarchical view of a module in a user interface. The browser shows parent-child relationships and groups. It can also be used to find objects in complex modules and to edit a user interface.
browser	navigateur (web); parcoureur (NetWare)	A utility that combines viewing with the ability to perform other actions, depending on rights or other dependencies. For example, a Web browser allows a user to access pages on the World Wide Web; a NetWare Administrator browser window allows a user to access the NDS tree.
browser-based firewall administration	administration du pare-feu basée sur navigateur	Administering an organization's firewall ("barrier" between intranet and Internet) via a browser.
btrieve	Btrieve	A database manager for NetWare, Windows 95/98 and Windows NT from Btrieve Technologies, Inc., Austin, TX. It allows for the creation of indexed files, using the b-tree organization method. Btrieve functions can be called from within many common programming languages. Btrieve was originally developed by Novell for NetWare. In 1994, it was sold to Btrieve Technologies, which was founded by former Novell employees.
btrieve requester	requêteur Btrieve	The Btrieve Requester program for the applicable DOS, OS/2, or MS Windows environment that resides at a workstation and provides communication between Btrieve and a workstation application making Btrieve calls.
buffer	tampon	A temporary storage location in memory where data can be held for processing. A buffer can be used to hold data in an area where it can be easily accessed. It is often used to compensate for differences in data-flow rates (for example, between a terminal and its transmission line). A buffer can also be used as a backup mechanism, holding data that can then be retransmitted if an error is detected during transmission.
buffer underflow	dépassement négatif du tampon	A condition in which a program receives an end-of-data error before it has received and read enough bytes to return the information that was requested. This usually occurs when the requested data is corrupted.
Bugzilla	Bugzilla	Bugzilla is the industry-standard bug tracking system. It is quite popular among Open Source enthusiasts.
bulletin board system	BBS	A computer system equipped with one or more modems or other means of network access that serves as an information and message-passing center for remote users.  A.ka. BBS (Bulletin Board System).
Bundle	offre groupée	packet of several products
bundled offering	offre groupée	An offering, legally distributed by a third party, comprised of the Novell Software distributed in combination or association with a product of that third party.
burst	rafale	A method of data transfer in which information is sent as a large unit in one high-speed transmission
burst mode	mode rafale	Another name for Packet Burst protocol, Novells high-speed transmission method that eliminates sequencing and acknowledgment between sending packets. In general, burst mode is a method for transmitting data across a network in which data is collected and sent as a unit in one high-speed transmission.
burst size	taille de la rafale	Committed burst size. The maximum number of data bits that a network agrees to transfer under typical conditions over a measured time interval.
business continuance	continuité des activités	Business continuance (sometimes referred to as business continuity) describes the processes and procedures an organization puts in place to ensure that essential functions can continue during and after a disaster. Business continuance planning seeks to prevent interruption of mission-critical services, and to reestablish full functioning as swiftly and smoothly as possible. (Source: searchStorage.com)
Business Expert	Business Expert	A type of Novell Partnership. Business Experts are characterised by the ability to translate business issues into sales opportunities. Business Experts offer value added services that turn Novell’s Net Services software into customer-focused solutions
business needs	besoins commerciaux	Something required or wanted by the specific business.
Business Partner	Business Partner	A type of Novell partnership. Every partner that meets a minimum revenue requirement – as well as employing a Certified Novell Salesperson (CNS) – can become a Novell Business Partner. Business Partners work with Novell on a flexible basis.  They are granted certain benefits like advance Novell promotion announcements, regular communication from Novell and access to partner information, technical support and training opportunities.
business problems	problèmes des entreprises, des clients, etc.	A question to be considered, solved, or answered by the specific business.
Business Solution Paper	présentation Business Solution	A brief 1 page solution document written to the Business Decision Maker to help them understand how Novell (or Novell Partner) technology can save them money, make them money or simplify their life.
busy search	plages disponibles	In GroupWise, a feature that lets users check the schedules of other users or resources when they set up an appointment.
C/S request	requête C/S	Requests between GroupWise clients and the POA in client/server (TCP/IP) connection mode.
cabinet	armoire	In GroupWise Client, a system folder which contains all user's personal folders.
cache	mettre en cache	A quickly accessible area of RAM or a directory or a disk that stores frequently used information.
cache balance percentage	pourcentage de cache	In server memory management, a value that determines how many cache blocks NSS will take from the traditional file system for its own cache. A high cache balance percentage will impede the performance of the traditional file system. A low cache balance will impede the performance of NSS.
cache buffer	tampon cache	A block of NetWare server memory (RAM) that temporarily stores data.
cache dirty hit	occurrence altérée dans le cache	A request for a disk block that is already in cache but is "dirty." A dirty cache block contains updated data that must be written to disk before the data can be used.
cache engine	moteur de cache	A mechanism of special high-speed storage called cache.
cache hit	occurrence dans le cache	A successful search for data in a memory cache.
cache list head	première entrée de la liste de cache	The first entry in the cache list.
cache list tail	dernière entrée de la liste de cache	The last entry in the cache list.
cache LRU sitting time	temps d'attente du LRU dans le cache	A field in the Cache Utilization screen of MONITOR that displays the time elapsed since the oldest block in the Least Recently Used LRU list was referenced. The LRU list identifies the least recently used data blocks, that is, blocks that have been in cache the longest time without being accessed. A high LRU sitting time indicates that the server has sufficient memory to handle disk requests or that requests are fairly static.
cache memory	mémoire cache	Available random access memory (RAM) that NetWare uses to improve NetWare server access time. Cache memory allocates memory for the hash table, the FAT, the Turbo FAT, suballocation tables, the directory cache, a temporary data storage area for files and NLM programs, and available memory for other functions.
cache pool	réserve de cache	In NetWare, a pool of RAM used for caching purposes.
caching	caching	A mechanism that allows to hold data in a temporary storage area, such as in memory (RAM), so that the data can be accessed more quickly than from the hard disk.
caching mailbox	boîte aux lettres de caching	A copy of user's network mailbox, including all messages and other information, stored on local drive. Caching mailbox is used in caching mode.
caching mode	utilisateur du mode caching	One of three modes available for running GroupWise Client software. Other modes are Online mode and Remote mode. Caching mode stores a copy of user's network mailbox, including all messages and other information, on local drive.
calendar	agenda	In GroupWise Client, a folder which displays tasks, appointments, and notes for specific days, regardless of the folder they are in.
calendar item	élément de l'agenda	A GroupWise item that is shown in a calendar view. Calendar views let users view their own and others' appointments, tasks, reminder notes.
calendar view	vue Agenda	Calendar view displays all scheduled items in a folder. The Calendar view brings all notes and appointments for one day into one location.
call	appel	A request by one network node to establish communications with another network node; also, the resulting communication session or the virtual circuit over which it is conducted.
call authentication	authentification d'appel	A method of protecting against unauthorized access into a system by inbound remote calls.
call back/callback	rappel	A routine that runs when a specified event occurs.
call gate	porte d'appel	The point at which an operating system can access a program to begin its processing.
call support layer	couche de support d'appel (CSL)	CSL. The software module that provides a general-purpose interface for controlling wide area network WAN calls. Call control refers to a set of actions taken to establish, maintain, and disconnect a WAN connection.
callback	rappel	An authentication technique that calls the sender back. After connection is made, the receiving side breaks the connection and calls the sender to ensure that the logon was made from the authorized computer. Callback prevents a stolen ID and password from being used on a different machine.
cancel	annuler	To annul or invalidate. Also a button in a dialog box that cancels any changes the user may have clicked in the dialog box, and allows the user to exit.
canned	clé en main	Preparing something in advance or getting something predefined, and then using it directly and seldom making any changes to it.
canonicalize	former	To expand a partial or abbreviated Directory Services name to its canonical form (which includes a full naming path with a type specification for each naming component). A canonical name is made by adding the name context to the name.
capacity threshold	seuil de capacité	In a server storage system, the percentage of hard disk memory that can be used before files stored there begin migrating to long-term storage.
capture	capturer	In communications, to transfer received data into a file for archiving or later analysis.
CAPTURE	CAPTURE	A NetWare command line utility used to print to a network printer from an application that is not designed to run on a network. CAPTURE can also print screen displays and save data to a network file.
carbon copy	copie carbone	CC. A GroupWise feature used  to send copies of an item to users who would benefit from the information, but who are not directly responsible for the information or directions in it.
carriage return	retour chariot	A control character that tells a computer or printer to return to the beginning of the current line.
cast	transtypage	In computer languages such as C or Java, a program action that converts an object from one type to another. For example, a variable of floating-point type may be cast to integer type. Each language has specific rules defining how a cast may occur. A programmer can perform a cast directly, or the language processor can perform the cast at processing time.
catalog	catalogue	A data dictionary, that is a database containing data about all the databases in a database system.
Catalog Services	Services de catalogue	A component shipped with NetWare 5.1. It's a part of NDS v7 services. Catalog Services allows administrators and applications to rapidly access NDSTM objects by combining them into user-defined catalogs. Catalogs allow you to access Directory information without "walking" the NDS tree.
categorized discussion group	groupe de discussion catégorisé	A categorized discussion group provides a three-paned interface in  which the user can view the entire discussion group hierarchy, all  of the articles within a particular discussion group, and the text of  a particular article.
cc	CC	Carbon Copy. A GroupWise feature used  to send copies of an item to users who would benefit from the information, but who are not directly responsible for the information or directions in it.
centralized identity management	gestion centralisée des identités	Authentication and privileges are administered by a single person/unit. So it is always clear who has access to what.
CEO	PDG	Abbreviation for Chief Executive Officer. See "Chief Executive Officer."
certificate	certificat	In public-key cryptography, a digital document attesting to the binding of a public key to an owner (such as an individual or a Web server). A certificate verifies claims that a given public key does in fact belong to a given individual. It is used to prevent unauthorized users from using phony keys to impersonate legitimate users. Also called "digital certificate," "digital ID," "digital passport," and "public key certificate."
certificate authority	autorité de certification	An entity that issues the digital certificates used in public-key cryptography and attests to the identity of the person or organization to whom it issues the digital certificates. For example, a company may issue certificates to its employees, a university to its students, or a town to its citizens. Also called certification authority or certifying authority.
certificate authority	autorité de certification	An entity that issues the digital certificates used in public-key cryptography and attests to the identity of the person or organization to whom it issues the digital certificates. For example, a company may issue certificates to its employees, a university to its students, or a town to its citizens. Also called certification authority or certifying authority.
certificate chain	chaîne de certificats	the process of presenting your CA's certificate in addition to your own. If the client trusts the CA who issued the certificate to your CA, the transaction will continue. In this way, a chain of trust is created: the client trusts the second CA, who trusts the first CA, who trusts you. Therefore, the client trusts you.
certificate database	base de données de certificats	A Netscape repository where digital certificates are stored. The Netscape certificate database is a file (called cert7.db) in Berkeley 1.85 DB hash format.
certificate revocation	révocation du certificat	The act of revoking a certificate. Validity checking of any certificate in the certificate chain where revoked certificate is found will return a status of Invalid.
certificate revocation list	liste de révocation de certificats	A time-stamped list that identifies revoked certificates. It is signed by a CA (Certificate Authority) and made freely available in a public repository.
certificate signing request	requête de signature de certificat	CSR  An electronic document that contains distinguishing information about a Web server or service and its associated organization. A CSR must be submitted to a certificate authority (CA) in order to receive a certificate for a service. When an external certificate authority is used, the CSR must be submitted to the CA to be digitally signed.
certificate validity interval	intervalle de validité du certificat	Certificate Validity Interval Specifies the amount of time that a certificate is valid.
certification	certification	Certification Path
certification authority	autorité de certification	A certification authority, or CA, is the person or organization who issues digital certificates to subscribers.  They act as a trusted "third party" certifying the identity of the subscriber to anyone who receives a digitally signed message.  The CA will first satisfy itself that the person or organization is exactly who or what they claim to be, and will then issue that person or organization with a 'certificate'. The certificate is likely to be in the form of an electronic key or value.
certification path	chemin de certification	A certificate in the certification path has already expired.
Certified Directory Engineer (CDE)	Certified Directory Engineer (CDE)	The Certified Directory Engineer provides training and performance-based certification for the experienced IT professional on industry leading directory-enabled solutions (known as the Novell Practicum).
Certified Linux Engineer	ingénieur certifié Linux	A BrainShare certification to recognize those IT professionals who have obtained a high-level of understanding of both the Linux platform and how Novell technologies run on and integrate Linux in mixed network environments.
certified novell administrator	Certified Novell Administrator	provides on-site networking administration for heterogeneous network users. Small businesses to corporate IS departments use CNAs to provide personalized, on-site administrative support.
Certified Novell Administrator Program	programme de certification CNA (Certified Novell Administrator)	
Certified Novell Engineer	Certified Novell Engineer	CNE  A Novell certification for service technicians that indicates they are capable of providing quality support for NetWare networks, including system design, installation, and maintenance.
Certified Novell Instructor	Certified Novell Instructor	CNI  A Novell certification for those who want to make a career of teaching others how to install, configure, and use Novell networking products. CNIs teach training courses at Novell Authorized Education Centers (NAECs) and Novell Education Academic Part
Certified Novell Salesperson	Certified Novell Salesperson (CNS)	Employee or self-employed person selling Novell products which acquired a special Novell certificate.
Certified Novell Technician	Certified Novell Technician	
certifier id file	fichier ID du certificateur	In Lotus Notes, a certificate file with an .ID extension, created during the installation and setup of the very first Notes server. It is used to issue Notes IDs for servers and users.
chaining	chaînage	The process of connecting locations that data must pass through to reach its final destination.
Chairman of the Board	président du conseil d'administration	The highest-ranking officer in a corporation's board of directors. Presides over corporate meetings. Sometimes has executive authority over a firm, sometimes does not.
challenge question	stimulation-question	A type of authentication procedure into a system in which a user must create a question for a secret key code to gain access.
challenge response	stimulation-réponse	A type of authentication procedure into a system in which a user must respond correctly to a challenge, usually a secret key code, to gain access.
changer	changeur	
channel	canal	A path for transmitting electromagnetic signals; a synonym for line or link.
character cell	cellule de caractère	A rectangular block of pixels that represents the space in which a given character is drawn on the screen.
charge rate	taux de facturation	The number that is subtracted from a NetWare users account balance for a unit of service. For example, a charge rate of 2/3 for connection time means that 2 is subtracted from the users account balance for every 3 minutes of connection time.
check in	réintégrer	A GroupWise document management action that returns control of a checked-out document to the management system and makes the document and its versions accessible to other users.
check mark	coche	A check mark indicates the rule is enabled.
check out	emprunter	To allocate a resource from the system.
checklist	liste de contrôle	A system folder in GroupWise 6.5 and higher which can be used to create task lists. Users can move any items (mail messages, phone messages, reminder notes, tasks, or appointments) to this folder and arrange them in the order they want. The Checklist folder replaces the Task List folder from versions prior to GroupWise 6.5.
checkpoint restart	redémarrage au point de contrôle	A new feature in ZENworks for Desktops 4 that will allow a transmission to a workstation or a laptop to be interrupted and then resumed at a later time. Whether the interruption was caused by a line failure or a user request, the next time that the application or data is requested, the transmission will resume at the point where the interruption occurred, without requiring previously transmitted data to be retransmitted.
checksum	contrôle de cohérence	A calculated value that is used to test data for the presence of errors that can occur when data is transmitted or when it is written to disk.
Chief Executive Officer	Président-directeur général	The corporate executive responsible for the operations of the firm; reports to a board of directors; may appoint other managers.
child	enfant	A data set or process that has no subordinates.
child partition	partition enfant	A partition that has a Directory tree boundary immediately below another partition.
child vlm	VLM enfant	A Virtual Loadable Module that receives calls from and returns calls to a parent VLM. A child VLM handles a particular implementation of a logical grouping of functionality. For example, each of the following is a child VLM of nwp.vlm: ? bind.vlm for NetWare 2 and 3 bindery servers? nds.vlm for NetWare 4 NDS servers? pnw.vlm for Personal NetWare NetWare desktop servers
choreography	chorégraphie	(Colloquial) A particular set of sequenced operations (in a business-process context).
chunk	tranche	Any arbitrary portion of a record, specified by its offset and length. Btrieve 6.1 allows applications to update and retrieve variable-length records in chunks. An application that uses Btrieves chunk feature can manipulate records longer than 64KB.
CIA Triad	triade CIA (confidentialité, intégrité et accessibilité)	The three primary security principles: confidentiality, integrity, and accessibility.
CIO	CIO	Chief Information Officer
cipher	cipher	An algorithm used in encryption. Some ciphers are stronger or more resistant to cracking than others. During a Secure Sockets Layer SSL connection, the client and the server agree to use the strongest cipher that they can both communicate with.
circuit	circuit	In the context of NetWare Link Services Protocol NLSP, an internal logical representation of network connectivity between two NLSP routers or between two SNA/NetBIOS end stations.
circuit-level gateway	passerelle de niveau circuit	A circuit-level gateway works at the Session layer in the OSI model, which means that even more information is required before packets are allowed or denied. Access is determined based on address, DNS domain name, or NDSTM username. Special client software must be installed on the workstation. Circuit-level gateways can bridge different network protocols, for example, IPX to IP.
CLA	Accord de licence CLA	Corporate License Agreement. The Novell Licensing Program for medium to large organizations.
CLA approved partner	partenaire autorisé CLA	A Novell Partner that is approved to sell CLA. Approval is required in Asia Pacific, Canada, Latin America, and the United States; in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, no special approval is required.
class of service	classe de service	In GroupWise gateways, such as GroupWise Internet Agent and WebAccess, a grouping that specifically defines a configuration of access privileges for services provided by gateway.
clean page	page libre	A page  which has not been modified since it was loaded from disk. It can be freed up at any time, unlike dirty pages which must first be written to their backing store before being reusable.
clean up	nettoyer	to make clean; to get rid of extraneous matter
clean up	tâche de nettoyage	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), a Set View Option in File Manager. When the As Placed option of the Placement preference is selected, icons that are not placed in grid positions snap back to grid positions.
clear	effacer	To make something in the computer user interface blank, such as a check box, a screen, or a graphics editor window.
clear	Effacer	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE):  1. A menu item used to remove selected icons or data and leave the visible space that they occupied.  2. An Appointment Editor button in Calendar that resets the appointment start and end times to the defaults and removes the information in the What field. Clear deselects an appointment if one was selected.  3. A To Do Editor button in Calendar that resets the Due Date to the default and removes the information in the What field. Clear deselects a To Do item if one was selected.  4. An option in the Text Editor Edit menu used to remove selected text.
clear text	texte clair	A user authentication mode that does not use any kind of password encryption.
clear text password	mot de passe en texte clair	A password that has not been encrypted.
clear to send	CTS (prêt à émettre)	CTS. A control signal generated by data communications equipment DCE to indicate that it can transmit data.
clearance	autorisation	Clearances are assigned to users to represent the amount of trust you have in that user. A clearance has a Read label that specifies what a user can Read and a Write label that specifies what information a user can write to. There are two types of clearances: single-level and multi-level.
client	client	A system or software application that requests services from another application, usually across a network.
client	client	A client is the requesting program or user in a client/server relationship. For example, the user of a Web browser is effectively making client requests for pages from servers all over the Web. The browser itself is a client in its relationship with the computer that is getting and returning the requested HTML file. The computer handling the request and sending back the HTML file is a server.
client extension	extension du client	A plug-in for the client to add to its base functionality; extensions are modular in nature and can be added, configured or removed dynamically; examples: a biometric authentication login interface or an encryption module.
client type	type de client	A client characteristic that distinguishes the client from other clients usually designed for other platforms.
client/server network	réseau client/serveur	A network having at least one personal computer configured as a server. The server runs the client/server network operating system and controls communication and shared network resources. The clients are workstations connected to the network and are running client software.
client/server request	requête client/server	Requests between GroupWise clients and the POA in client/server (TCP/IP) connection mode.
client-side application	application sur client	An application that is downloaded to the client and run on the client machine.
clipboard	presse-papiers	An area in a computer's memory used to hold data that has been copied or cut from one application in order to be pasted somewhere else.
clipboard	presse-papiers	1. A buffer that temporarily stores the last cut, copy, or pasted data.  2. In the Application Manager feature of the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), an action that displays your clipboard by using the command xclipboard.  3. In the OSF/Motif Style Guide, an area of storage provided by the operating system to hold data temporarily.
cluster	grappe	A group of similar peripheral devices, usually under the control of one master.  In IBM 3270 systems, the input/output of a cluster of display stations is controlled by a cluster control unit and cluster controller.
cluster	mettre en grappe	To arrange multiple computers so that they function together as one multiprocessing system, instead of using multiple processors within one computer.
cluster of clusters	grappe de grappes	A cluster of clusters consists of two or more clusters in which each cluster is located in a geographically separate area. A cluster of clusters provides the ability to fail over selected or all cluster resources from one cluster to another cluster. Typically, replication of data blocks between SANs is performed by SAN hardware, but it can be done by host-based mirroring for synchronous replication over short distances.
Cluster Services	Cluster Services	A reliable and cost-effective storage area network (SAN) solution that can be used to ensure high availability and manageability of critical network resources, including data (volumes), applications, server licenses, and services.
clustering	Mise en grappe	The act of connecting multiple computers and making them act like a single machine. Organizations often cluster servers to distribute computing-intensive tasks and risks. If one server in a cluster fails, some operating systems can move its processes to another server, allowing end users to continue working while the first server is revived.
clustering software	logiciel de grappe	
code table	table de codes	Stores commonly used business code tables and works in conjunction with a code table Map to produce an output XML document that is more meaningful to the person or business process receiving the output.
Code Table Editor	éditeur de table de codes	An interface that can edit Code Table.
cold backup	sauvegarde à froid	A backup that is run when the database is shut down
cold start	démarrage à froid	A type of trap supported by the SNMP Protocol. The Cold Start trap indicates that the agent is reinitializing itself in a way that might alter its configuration.
collaborate	collaborer	To work together, especially in a joint intellectual effort.
collaboration solution	solution de collaboration	A solution that allows people to share documents and work collaboratively.
collate	assembler	In data handling, to merge items from two or more similar sets to create a combined set that maintains the order or sequence of items in the original sets.
collection	collection	Group of entries that have similar roles, interests, or behaviors
collector	collecteur	In Novell GroupWise WorkFlow Professional, a common destination for other steps. The person assigned to a collector step reviews the responses and comments from the immediately preceding steps.
collision	collision	Loss of data caused by two devices using a shared transmission cable at the same time.
collision	collision	The result of two devices or network workstations trying to transmit signals at the exact same time on the same channel.
combine	combiner	To join together to make a single thing or group.
command file	fichier de commandes	A user defined file containing a sequence of commands. A command file can execite a frequently used command or a sequence of commands.
command format	format de commande	Instructions that show how to type a command at the keyboard; also called syntax. In NetWare manuals, a command format may include constants, variables, and symbols.
command line	ligne de commande	
command line parameter	paramètre de ligne de commande	
command line utility	utilitaire de ligne de commande	A utility accessed through single word commands and options. The command follows a specific syntax.
command transformation	transformation de la commande	An XSLT stylesheet that describes how commands are to be transformed to other actions. This rule allows for additional control following the standard processing of the data by the DirXML engine. An example of where this may be useful is when DirXML detects a match for an unassociated object. Generally in this case, the DirXML engine would perform a merge operation by issuing commands to modify the corresponding objects in both eDirectory and the application. The Command Transformation rule can be used to control or modify how this operation is to be handled.
Commercial Public Network Service	service de réseau public commercial	Commercial Public Network Service is a service offered to businesses or the general public that provides Internet access, virtual private networking, remote network management, access to corporate or other networks, or access to any remote computing device, application, service or data.
Commissionaire Agreement	Accord de Commissionnaire	Commissionaire agreements establish the concept of “Deemed” intercompany purchases and sales on which revenue and taxation are evaluated.
commit logic	logique de validation	
common gateway interface	interface de passerelle commune	CGI. A standard for how a Web server communicates with external programs. CGI specifies how to pass arguments to the executing program as part of the HTTP request and defines a set of environment variables. Commonly, the program generates some HTML that is passed back to the browser, but it can also request redirection to a different URL. This interfacing allows for interactive sites instead of just static text and images.
common name	nom commun	CN  The naming attribute assigned to Directory Services leaf objects. All leaf objects are designated by the Common Name naming attribute, or CN. Also, the name of a leaf object, as displayed in the Directory tree.
Common Operating Environment (COE)	environnement d'exploitation commun (COE - Common Operating Environment)	Refers to a common IT architecture within an organization which promotes interoperability and cross-platform capabilities among devices. All workstations within an organization run the same software and use the same interfaces so that its devices are standardized and information presentation and platform interfaces are consistent throughout the organization.
communication buffer	tampon de communication	An area in the NetWare server's memory set aside to temporarily hold data packets arriving from clients.
communication transport protocols	protocoles de transport de communication	Protocols for communication transport.
community	communauté	The people with common interests.
community name	nom de communauté	A case-sensitive text string identifying a Desktop SNMP access control group called a "community." This parameter is specified under "Desktop SNMP options" in a client's net.cfg file. There are three community types:  ? Control community. Describes the read/write community (the community that is allowed to do SET operations). Any community name established for read/write access is also valid for read-only access. The default value is "public." When the control community is disabled, all write access is disabled.  ? Monitor community. Describes the read-only community (the community that is allowed to do GET and GET NEXT operations). The default value is "public." When the monitor community is disabled, all read access is disabled.  ? Trap community. Describes the community name used for traps. The default value is "public." When the trap community name is disabled, Desktop SNMP does not send traps.
compare right	droit Comparer	C. A property right that allows a trustee to compare the value of a property with another value to see if they are equal. The Compare right process returns True or False, but it does not return the actual value of the property.
comparison chart	graphique comparatif	A chart which lists the differences in each product release or in competitive products.
compatibility mode driver	pilote de mode de compatibilité	A program routine that links a peripheral device to an operating system or computer allowing it to run programs written for a different system.  Acronym=CMD
competent jurisdiction	juridiction compétente	In Novell's License Agreement, a term used to define the jurisdiction with the court that have power to decide justiciable controversy.
complete and authentic copy	copie intégrale et authentique	In Novell's License Agreement, a term used to define the copy of Original Product eligible for upgrade as opposed to the simply master or license disk.
complete name	nom complet	An object name that includes its path from the root of the NDS tree. For example, if user KSMITH is located at O=Novell, OU=Sales, then her complete name is Ksmith.Sales.Novell. In NDS terminology, complete name is called distinguished name (DN).
completed	effectué	A checkbox in a GroupWise Task view used to indicate that a Task item has been completed.
compose	composer	To create a new message, appointment, task or note.
compressed attribute	attribut Compressé	Co. A file system attribute indicating that a file is compressed. The Compressed attribute is automatically set by NetWare. It is shown in attribute listings but cant be set by users.
Computer Extensible policy	règle d'ordinateur extensible	In ZENworks for Desktops, a policy that sets user-defined policies (from .adm files) for workstation objects. The policy is part of the Workstation package.
computer name prefix	préfixe du nom de l'ordinateur	The first few (up to 8) characters of the Computer Name by which a workstation will be known on the Windows network. The remaining characters (up to 15 total) are generated randomly by the imaging agent on the workstation so that each workstation has a unique name on the Windows network.
computer object	objet Ordinateur	A leaf object in the NDS tree that represents a network computer, such as a router. The object does not represent a server. The Computer object records information such as a description, serial number, and contact person.
conceal the subject	masquer l'objet	In GroupWise Client, to conceal the subject of items user sends. When the subject of items user sends is concealed, the subject does not appear in the Item List in the recipient's Mailbox.
conditional link	lien conditionnel	A link whose behaviour varies depending on whether a certain condition is true or not.
conduit	conduit	A pipe containing electric wires or cables, in order to protect them against damage from external causes.
confidential	confidentiel	In GroupWise Client, a level of security classification assigned by a user to outgoing item. Other security classifications are Normal, Proprietary, Secret, Top Secret, and For your eyes only.
confidential information	informations confidentielles	Information communicated in confidence.
configuration file	fichier de configuration	A file containing commands that set up the computing environment. The configuration file executes automatically upon startup.
configuration management	gestion de la configuration	Configuration management (CM) is the detailed recording and updating of information that describes an enterprise's computer systems and networks, including all hardware and software components.
conflict	conflit	A state of affairs in which two or more parties claim possession of something not all can have simultaneously.
conflict bin	liste des conflits	Novell iFolder storage area containing files that were saved before they were deleted or overwritten during synchronization with the server.
congestion	encombrement	The existence of excessive traffic on the network.
connect	connecter	The act of establishing an authenticated connection to a server so a user can, for example, mount a volume.
connect time	durée de connexion	The duration a user is connected to a network.
connection	connexion	In VTAM programs, a physical connection to another device.
connection	connexion	In Systems Network Architecture (SNA), the network path that links two logical units in different nodes.
connection factory	fabrique de connexion	An object that creates a connection.
connection log	journal de connexion	In GroupWise Remote, a log where information about connection time, error messages, and so forth is recorded. Connection log is used to display connection information and to troubleshoot connection problems.
Connection Management Software	logiciel de gestion des connexions	Connection Management Software means computer programs provided as part of the Software that monitor the number of connections permitted under this License and that are designed to prevent more connections than the number of licensed connections specified by the User Count.
connection number	numéro de connexion	A unique number assigned to any process, print server, application, workstation, or other entity that attaches to a NetWare server. The number can be different each time an attachment is made. Connection numbers are used in implementing network security and for network accounting. They reflect the objects place in the file servers connection table. Additionally, they provide an easy way to identify and obtain information about the objects logged in on the network.
connection pool	réserve de connexions	A connection pool is a set of database connections managed by the application server for the various applications it manages.
Connection Resource	ressource de connexion	A resource used to establish communications with an external data source or with a server that uses HTTP authentication.
connectivity	connectivité	The ability to link different pieces of hardware and software (Macintoshes, PCs, minicomputers, or mainframes) into a network to share resources (applications, printers, and so forth).
connector	connecteur	The part of a cable that plugs into a port or interface to connect one device to another.
console	console	1.  At the server console, type 'load long.nam'
console	console	The monitor and keyboard where a user views and controls NetWare server or host activity.
console command	commande de console	In NetWare server, a command that can be executed at the server console.
console frame window	fenêtre de trame de la console	Frame window used by the console
console operator	opérateur de la console	A user or member of a group who has been assigned rights to manage the NetWare server.
console SET command	commande SET de la console	The SET command used at the NetWare file server console.
Consolidated Support Pack	Support Pack consolidé	CSP. A collection of patches and fixes for key Novell products that have been tested and released simultaneously.
construct	construction	A thing that builds up something as a whole.
construct	construire	To build, to put together different pars to form a whole.
Consulting co-engagement	contrat mutuel d'engagement consulting	Consulting project with a partner
consulting services	services consulting	The business of providing professional or expert advice.
Consumer	consommateur	One that utilizes economic goods.
contact	contact	In an online address book, the entry for a person, consisting of varying amounts of personal and/or professional information about that person.
container	conteneur	In NDS, a login script type and a property of the Organization object. It executes first, sets the general environments for all users in the Organization (drive mappings, messages, printing, access to applications, and so on), and provides global assignments on the network. Only the container login script of the container that holds the User object is executed for a user at login. This script is created in a container object, is maintained by the administrator, and is also known as the system login script. (If NetWare for Small Business is installed, this login script file is empty.)
container administrator	administrateur des conteneurs	An NDS administrator role for administering the tree at the container level
container login script	script de login conteneur	A set of commands that sets environmental variables for all users within a container. The container login script is executed when a user logs in.
container object	objet Conteneur	An NDS object that can hold, or contain, other objects. Container objects are used to logically group related objects in the NDS tree to provide those objects with rights and services. Common examples of container objects are Country, Organization, and Organizational Unit.
containment	endiguement	The grouping of related objects into container objects in the NDS tree. For example, a user object's containment is Organization, Organizational Unit and domain (NDS 8). This means that Organization, Organizational Unit and domain objects can contain user objects.
content	contenu	Generally, the information provided on a web page, as opposed to its design and layout. Content can take the form of text, graphics, audio, video, or a searchable database.
Content Editor	éditeur de contenu	A dialog box available in the Map Action designed to perform XML element level transformations of data. The Content Editor can splice and re-splice data by character or character position, insert constants, and apply functions.
content frame	cadre de contenu	A frame that displays contents.
context	contexte	The position or location of an object in the NDS tree. When an administrator adds an object (such as a server or user) to the network, that object is placed in a container in the NDS tree. The path of containers from the root of the tree to the new object constitutes the object's context. For example, if a User object were created in a container called SALES, which itself was located in a top-level container called ACME, the context of the User object would be SALES.ACME.
context	CONTEXT	The login script command that sets a user's current context in the Directory tree, and is the context you want the user to see after login. The format for this command is: CONTEXT. For example: CONTEXT.SALES.NOVELL_US.
context factory	factory de contexte	Some kind of object that creates a context.
context string	chaîne de contexte	A string defining eDirectory context. See "context."
context switch	changement de contexte	Switching between active applications. Task switching can be performed by a multitasking operating system that continually switches the CPU from one program to another in the background.
context-sensitive help	aide contextuelle	Help information about the specific choice that the cursor or pointer is on. Context-sensitive help can also be online information in Help that is relevant to what the user is doing within an application. Sometimes pressing the F1 key is referred to as "context-sensitive help" because the choice of help topic is based on the user's context.
Continuance	Continuité	It is when agreement terms remain in effect unchanged.
control article	article de contrôle	Article sent to a replication site that asks the news server to create Internet discussion groups, delete outdated discussion groups, cancel articles, etc.
control packet	paquet de contrôle	A link-control or network-control packet used for establishing encapsulation format options, size limits of packets, link setup, peer authentication, or network-layer protocol management.
control panel	Panneau de configuration	A desk accessory in Windows or Macintosh interfaces that lets a user change the speaker volume, mouse tracking, color display, network connection software, and other features.
controlled access printer	imprimante à accès limité	An NDPS printer that has been added to the NDS tree as an NDS object. Access is available only to users who have been granted rights to it.
controller	contrôleur	A hardware device that coordinates and controls the operation of one or more input or output devices, such as a disk driver. In AS/400, controller is a synonym for physical unit (PU).
controller board	carte de contrôleur	A device that enables a computer to communicate with another device, such as a hard disk or tape drive. The controller board manages input/output and regulates the operation of its associated device.
conventional memory	mémoire conventionnelle	In the IBM PC-type computer, the first 640 KB of random access memory (RAM), sometimes called base memory. It is generally where the operating system and applications are loaded.
convergence	convergence	The synchronization process that a network goes through immediately after a route change happens on the network. The amount of time it takes to all routers to synchronize their databases when a change occurs to the network is a major problem with the Routing Information Protocol (RIP).
convergence rate	taux de convergence	The rate at which NLSP routing information converges on all NLSP routers across an IPX internetwork. A user can specify the convergence rate by setting the NLSP Rate of Convergence parameter to "Default" or "Fast."
convergence time	temps de convergence	The time required for routing information to spread thoughout the network.
conversation place	Conversations	Conversation Place is a component within the GroupWise environment. It exposes and simplifies many commonly available, yet little-used features of the telephone.
conversion	conversion	Data conversion is changing data from one file or database format to another. It may also require code conversion between ASCII and EBCDIC.
cookieless	sans cookie	Cookieless operation enables session tracking when cookies are disabled at the client or removed by personal firewalls and proxies, without workarounds such as dynamic coding in ASP or PHP of hidden form data or url parameter variables into all pages as session identifiers.
cool solutions web community	communauté Cool Solutions	Novell Web Community that supplies informative feature articles; time-saving tips from developers, testers, even users like you; world-famous Q&A; nifty downloadables; and links to other cool sites.
copy inhibit attribute	attribut Non copiable	Ci. A file system attribute that prevents users from copying the file even if they have Read and File Scan rights.
Copyright	Copyright	The exclusive legal right to reproduce, publish, and sell the matter and form (as of a literary, musical, or artistic work)
copyright notice	mention de copyright	A "C" in a circle (©), followed by the year of publication and the name of the person claiming the copyright. For instance, "Copyright (c) 1999-2001 Novell, Inc.  All Rights Reserved."
CORBA	CORBA	Common Object Request Broker Architecture. A specification developed by the Object Management Group in 1992 in which pieces of programs (objects) communicate with other objects in other programs, even if the two programs are written in different programming languages and are running on different platforms. A program makes its request for objects through an object request broker or ORB and thus does not need to know the structure of the program from where the object comes. CORBA is designed to work in object-oriented environments.
core dump	vidage de la mémoire	A file generated under certain conditions when an error terminates a program. The file is a snapshot of the program state at the moment of termination.
core file	fichier core	A file created to hold a memory image useful for debugging problems when a program malfunctions.
Core Foundation	composant Core Foundation	The core foundation component of Novell government solutions delivers a comprehensive set of services—including networking services such as file and print, and enterprise services such as collaboration and resource management—that support fundamental government operations. The core foundation delivers this rich functionality in the mixed-platform environments typically found in government organizations.
Corporate License Agreement (CLA)	Accord de Licence CLA	The CLA allows customers to make purchasing decisions at a division, branch, or even department level, helping control and minimize costs enterprise-wide. Novell customers can benefit from pricing that recognizes volume commitment to Novell products.   The CLA preserves existing relationships between customers and their preferred resellers, offering a strong relationship with both Novell and highly qualified reseller partners. The CLA provides customers a flexible licensing solution for their organizations, regardless of size, geographic distribution, or decentralization.
cost	coût	A metric assigned to a circuit that determines the likelihood of traffic being routed over that circuit.
counter	compteur	A variable that is used to keep track of anything that must be counted.
country	pays	a political state or nation or its territory.
country object	objet Pays	C  An optional container object that designates one country where network sites are located, and that is used to organize other NDS objects within that object. For example: US. This object is always found at the top of the NDS tree (directly below the [Root] object). This object is not often used, but it is available for compliance with the X.500 standard.
court of competent jurisdiction	tribunal compétent, tribunal ayant juridiction	In License Agreement, a court that is recognized as being able to decide justiciable controversy.
crawled collection	collection patrouillée	A set of searchable web pages that exist on one or more (specified) web servers. The collection includes only pages reached by following hyperlinks from one or more 'start' pages.
crawler	patrouilleur	A program that searches for information on the World Wide Web. A crawler is used to locate new documents and new sites by following hypertext links from server to server and indexing information based on search criteria.
crawling	patrouille	The process in which the Search Server follows hyperlinks until reaching a file that contains no outbound links to other files.
create right	droit Créer	A file system right that grants the ability to create new files or subdirectories, or to salvage a file after it has been deleted.  Also, an NDS object right that allows the trustee to create a new object below the current object in the tree. This right is available only for objects that can have subordinates, such as containers and volumes.
creator	créateur	The person who created the document in the library. By default, the creator of the document is also the author; however, you can specify a different person as the author of the document in Document Properties.
credentials	références	The combination of one or more Identifications (application name, username, pass phrase etc) coupled with a password. Essentially it is the information used to validate a connection to Portal itself and also from one service to another within portal (via Single Sign-on).
critical section	section critique	A non-re-entrant piece of code that can only be executed by one process at a time. It will usually terminate in bounded time and a process will only have to wait a bounded time to enter it. Some synchronization mechanism is required at the entry and exit of the critical section to ensure exclusive use.
Cron	cron	A Linux daemon that executes specified tasks at a designated time or interval.
cross certificate pair	paire de certificats interchangeables	A pair of public encryption keys that allow public key verification to circumvent the normal certification hierarchy. This provides a shorter certification path.
CrossOver Office	CrossOver Office	A Codeweavers' product that provides access to important applications on Linux without the need for Windows and its accompanying license.  CrossOver Office performs its magic with the help of WINE (which stands for "Wine Is Not an Emulator"), a rewrite of the W32 API that provides a portability layer for Windows programs to run on Unix machines without the need for Windows or a Windows license.
cross-platform	multi plate-forme	A term that describes a language, software application or hardware device that works on more than one system platform (e.g. Unix, NetWare, Microsoft Windows, Macintosh).
crypto downgrade	installation d'une version de niveau de codage moins puissant	The process of installing a weak NICI version on a strong NICI installed base.
crypto level	niveau crypto	The level of cryptography running on the server and on the workstation
crypto strength	niveau crypto	
cryptography module	module cryptographique	A software module that supports the technology of encoding information so it can only be read by authorized individuals.
cryptography-enabled application	application codée	Application that requires a certificate. This includes Novell* applications such as LDAP Services for NDS*, SSL, and Novell BorderManager*.
cumulative policy	règle cumulative	A type of policy that allows multiple policies to be effective when multiple policy packages are associated to the object, group, and container. Cumulative policies are more common than plural policies. See also "plural policy".
CUPS*	CUPS	CUPS acronym that stands for Common Unix Printing System. It is a cross-platform printing solution for all UNIX environments. It is based on the "Internet Printing Protocol" and provides complete printing services to most PostScript and raster printers. CUPS is provided under the GNU GPL.
current connections	connexions actuelles	A NetWare option that allows the network administrator to limit the number of workstations from which a user can log in at the same time.
current context	contexte actuel	A user's current location in an NDS tree, as reported by the Novell Client software. NDS will resolve all relative names to that container.
current directory	répertoire actuel	Short for "current working directory" CWD. The directory where a user is currently working. This is the directory at the end of the current path displayed at the DOS prompt if the $p$g command is in force; it is where files are stored if no path is specified; and it is the directory searched first for a requested file.
current item	élément sélectionné	The currently highlighted item in a list.
current session	session en cours	A currently lasting connection between a user (or user agent) and a peer, typically a server, usually involving the exchange of many packets between the user's computer and the server. A session is typically implemented as a layer in a network protocol (e.g. telnet, FTP).
custom backup	sauvegarde personnalisée	One of the four types of backup sessions offered by SBACKUP. The other three are Full, Differential, and Incremental. Custom backup backs up only the data you specify. This option is used to select portions of the file system structure or of the companys Directory tree as the target, using include and exclude options.
custom device module	module de périphérique personnalisé	CDM  The driver component in the NetWare Peripheral Architecture (NPA) used to drive specific storage devices attached to the host adapter.
custom field	champ personnalisé	In GroupWise document management, a user-defined field in the Document Properties dialog box that was created by the system administrator.
Custom Scan Editor	éditeur d'analyse personnalisée	In ZENworks for Desktops and ZENworks for Servers, a tool that allows administrators to add new applications for scanning by the inventory scanner.
Custom Script Editor	éditeur de scripts personnalisés	An application that enables a user to edit custom scripts.
Custom Script Resource Editor	éditeur de ressources de scripts personnalisés	An application that enables a user to create or edit custom script resources.
Customer Care	Service clients	Page on Novell.com that includes links that give you the ability to order Novell products, obtain upgrades to Novell products, activate Novell products, and troubleshoot issues with Novell product deliveries.
customer satisfaction hotline	ligne Allô Novell	A service provided by the Novell Resolution Resource Group. This group works to resolve immediate customer concerns that are not being resolved through normal channels.
customer support	support client	
customers and partners	clients et partenaires	Customer. A party that buys goods or services. Synonym: Client. Partner. A member of a business partnership.
customize	personnaliser	
Cutoff Period	délai d'inactivité	The maximum number of seconds a process is allowed in memory without any activity. This is controlled by the value of the  CUTOFF  element.
CVS	CVS (Système de contrôle de version)	The Concurrent Version System (CVS) is a program or tool that lets a code developer save and retrieve different development versions of source code. It also lets a team of developers share control of different versions of files in a common repository of files. Also known as a version control system. CVS was created in the Unix operating system environment and is available in both Free Software Foundation and commercial versions. It is a popular tool for programmers working on Linux and other UNIX-based systems.
CxO	CxO	Chief Executive Officer
cyclic graph	graphique cyclique	A graph that permits links from downstream nodes back to upstream nodes, forming a loop.
DA	DA	Directory Agent
daemon	daemon	A background program that runs unattended, collecting information or performing operating system administration tasks. Some daemons are triggered automatically by events; others operate at timed intervals.
daily full backup only	sauvegarde complète une fois par jour uniquement	In NetWare, a type of backup strategy that requires all data on the network to be backed up at the end of each day on a separate tape for each day.
data encipherment	codage des données	An option under the Public Key Usage Property Page. A check mark in this check box indicates that the public key is used for encrypting user data, except for cryptographic keys.
data file	fichier de données	A collection of data or information that is stored on a computer.
data fork	plage de données	The part of a Macintosh file that contains user-typed information, i.e. raw text.
Data General Component Editor	éditeur du composant Data General	A separately-installed component editor in exteNd Composer.
Data General Logon Connection	connexion de login Data General	A Connection Resource used for logon to Data General terminal.
data mart	magasin de données	A data mart is a repository of data gathered from operational data and other sources that is designed to serve a particular community of knowledge workers.  It is a data repository that may derive from a data warehouse or not and that emphasizes ease of access and usability for a particular designed purpose.
data migration	migration de données	The transfer of inactive data from a NetWare volume to tape, optical disk, or other near-line or offline storage media. Data migration lets an administrator move data to a storage device, while NetWare still sees the data as residing on the volume.
data mining	exploration de données	Data mining is sorting through data to identify patterns and establish relationships.
data protection	protection des données	A means of ensuring that data on the network is safe. NetWare protects data primarily by maintaining duplicate file directories and by redirecting data from bad blocks to reliable blocks on the NetWare servers hard disk.
data reliability	fiabilité des données	A type of System Fault Tolerance that helps protect network data by ensuring that network data is read correctly and written and stored on good media. It includes the following features: disk duplexing, disk mirroring, Hot Fix, read-after-write verification, FAT and DET duplication
data requester	requêteur de données	The NetWare Loadable Module (NLM) that transports data between the backup engine and the Target Service Agent (TSA).
data set	ensemble de données	A compilation of related information. Data sets can contain different items depending on which target service agent (TSA) they are related to.
data stream	flux de données	The continuous flow of data from one place to another
data stream trailer	terminaison du flux de données	
data transformation	transformation des données	An XSLT stylesheet that describes how the data is to be transformed from one format to another. This rule may be used to specify transformations for a specific set of attributes or it can be applied to the entire data format as a whole.
data warehouse	entrepôt de données	A data warehouse is a central repository for all or significant parts of the data that an enterprise's various business systems collect. It is a central aggregation of data (which can be distributed physically).
database	base de données	A collection of data with a given structure for accepting, storing, and providing data for single or multiple users.
dataclub file sharing	partage de fichiers DataClub	An addition to Novell solutions for the Macintosh. With DataClub, Macintosh users enjoy the high performance of a dedicated file server with or without dedicated server hardware. Dataclub is a trademark of Novell, Inc. Dataclub is a legacy Macintosh solution.
datagram	datagramme	A data transmission packet used in connectionless mode communication. Datagrams are independent of each other in that the receiver is able to reconstitute a message without any dependency on the order in which packets are received. In general, datagrams are not acknowledged.
data-link connection identifier	identificateur de connexion de liaison de données	DLCI. The 10-bit routing address of the virtual circuit at either the User-Network Interface UNI or the Network-Network Interface NNI. It allows the user and network management to identify the frame as being from a particular permanent virtual circuit PVC. The DLCI is used for multiplexing several PVCs over one physical link.
data-link layer	couche Liaison de données	The second of seven layers of the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) reference model. The data-link layer is involved in packaging and addressing information, and in controlling the flow of separate transmissions over communication lines.
datastore	banque de données	A permanent storehouse of data. The term is often used to lump the storage of all types of data structures (files, databases, text documents, etc.) into one generic category. (source: TechWeb). Also spelled "data store"
date difference	nombre de jours entre les dates	GroupWise client dialog box. Used to calculate the number of days between two dates or to calculate a start or end date to a specified period of time.
date stamp	tampon de date	In NDS programming code, the part of a time stamp that records only the date. Compare with "time stamp".
DB recovery	récupération de la base de données	A domain or post office database operation performed by choosing 'Perform DB Recovery' in MTA or POA Admin Status box.
dbcs	DBCS	double-byte character set  A character set that enables the representation of non-Roman alphabets such as Japanese, Chinese, and Korean. A double-byte character set uses two bytes to represent a character as opposed to ASCII, which uses one byte per character.
deadlock	blocage	1. A situation that occurs when two or more nodes are waiting for messages from each other and cannot continue processing verbs; when two or more applications attempt to lock the same files. 2. A condition that occurs when two tasks are retrying operations on files, pages, or records that the other one has already locked.
dead-path elimination	élimination logique des chemins subordonnés	A special lookahead operation that the Process Server conducts every time a conditional expression (a link condition, for example) evaluates to false.
Debian	Debian	Debian is the largest completely free Linux distribution. Like the kernel itself it is developed under the bazaar style. Debian is recognized for its very good stability and its package system.
debug	déboguer	To remove errors from a program.
debugger	débogueur	A tool used by developers to identify errors in a program in order to facilitate their removal.
decipher	décoder	To convert encrypted data back into its original form.
decline	refuser	Option/Button in connection with scheduled GroupWise items (Appointment, Reminder Note, Task). Scheduled items will not be entered into the user's GroupWise calendar if he/she selects this option.
decompress	décompresser	To restore compressed data back to its original size.
decorated url	URL détaillée	Search functions and arguments displayed in the URL field as a result of HTML search queries.
Decryption	Décodage	The process of retrieving encrypted data to their original format.
dedicated ipx driver	pilote IPX dédié	IPX.COM, the predecessor of ODI drivers (IPXODI.COM).
deep copy	copie profonde	A copying method that copies not only superfacial objects but also objects at deeper level. A copy of the object and the objects to which it refers.  Oppose to ´shallow copy´.  A deep copy constructs a new compound object and then, recursively, inserts copies into it of the objects found in the original.
default	par défaut	A value or setting that a device or program automatically selects if you do not specify a substitute.
default	par défaut	A value or setting that a device or program automatically selects if you do not specify a substitute. For example, word processors have default margins and default page lengths that you can override or reset. The default drive is the disk drive the computer accesses unless you specify a different disk drive. Likewise, the default directory is the directory the operating system searches unless you specify a different directory. The default can also be an action that a device or program will take. For example, some word processors generate backup files by default.
default directory	répertoire par défaut	The directory where files are saved to or retrieved from when no other directory is specified. On some platforms this is called a current directory.
default login script	script de login par défaut	A script that contains only essential commands, such as a basic drive mapping for the system.
default server	serveur par défaut	An NDS property called Host Server that is mandatory for Volume and User objects. In the case of Volume objects, its the server the physical volume is attached to. In the case of User objects, the UI calls it Default Server and its the server the user gets a connection to during login if the user doesnt request a connection to a specific server. Its also the server used if the user makes a network request without naming the server, and its the server to which the user still has an attachment after logging out.
default sharing right	droit de partage par défaut	In GroupWise document management, document sharing rights that users can specify. Once specified, they apply to every document the user creates.
default zone	zone par défaut	The zone name that has been designated for all devices on a network to be associated with by default.
delay	délai	The time it takes to send a byte of data from one system to another.
delegate	déléguer (verb) délégué (adj) délégation (noun)	A GroupWise feature used to reroute scheduled items (Appointment, Reminder Note, Task) to another user.
delegated administration	délégation des tâches administratives	An iManager capability that allows overworked and understaffed network administrators to assign individuals, from admins to helpdesk personnel, with specific management tasks and duties. Implementing delegated administration, however, requires careful planning to ensure that the highest levels of security are maintained. This white paper outlines these important security considerations when using iManager for delegated administration
delegatee	délégataire	The user to whom an item has been delegated (by the delegator)
delegator	délégant	The person who delegates an item to another user.
delete	supprimer	To get rid of or discard something (such as a file or directory) that no longer has apparent value or usefulness. In computer usage, deleted items are often held in a storage area (such as a trash bin) for potential recovery. If the storage area is purged (as when the trash is emptied), the deleted item can no longer be recovered.
delete inhibit attribute	attribut Non supprimable	Di. A file system attribute that prevents a directory or file from being deleted or erased, even if a user has the Erase right. This attribute is automatically set and removed when the Read Only attribute is set and removed.
delete right	droit Supprimer	D  The ability to delete an object from the NDS tree.
Delete Self right	droit Se supprimer	A property right that grants a trustee the ability to remove itself as a value of the property.
deletor	opérateur de suppression	Sort option in Novell Directory Services Object Administration. These options specify how to sort the list of deleted files. You can sort by filename, deletion date, deletor, file size, and file type.
delimited text driver	pilote pour fichier texte délimité	A driver designed to synchronize user data between NDS eDirectory and delimited text files that contain comma-separated values or XML files in XDS format. The driver is designed to be as flexible as possible. You can create your own style sheets to enable the driver to work with virtually any text-based file that contains predictably repeatable patterns.
delimiter	séparateur	A character, symbol, or code that marks the beginning or end of an item such as a command or command parameter, sentence, paragraph, page, record, field, or word. Delimiters used in NetWare include the comma (,), the period (.), the slash (/), the backslash (\), the hyphen (-), and the colon (:).  Also used in "dynamic delimiter" to refer to a character that expands to enclose part of an equation.
delivery	distribution	The carrying and turning over of GroupWise items to a designated recipient or recipients.
delivery report	rapport de livraison	In GroupWise, a Message Transfer Agent (MTA) message logging response to user messages. It indicates the delivery status of the message.
delta scan	analyse delta	A scan of changed inventory data since the last scan. After a workstation is scanned for the first time, the next time the scanner compares the current inventory data to the history data that it maintains. If there are any changes to the workstation, the scanner creates a delta scan, which collects the changes in inventory since the last scan was done.
Demand Agent	Demand Agent	Channel marketing PartnerNet program created to increase profitability and rewards influence
demo	démo	A visual presentation or demonstration showing how a a product or service works.
deploy	déployer	To use, or to put into position ready to be used, especially in an effective way.
deployment context	contexte de déploiement	A context used to distinguish two Composer services (in different projects) from each other should they happen to have the same name, thereby preventing namespace collisions.
Deployment Manager	gestionnaire de distribution	In NetWare, an administration utility that allows to prepare an existing network for NetWare, to understand installation and upgrade options, and to complete post-installation tasks.
deployment*	déploiement	Putting into use or action.
deprovisioning	déprovisioning	The deactivation and deletion of authentication credentials of an employee or a partner who leaves the company
dequeue	retirer de la file d'attente	To remove an item from a queue.
descendant element	élément descendant	An element whose position in hierarchy is lower than its ancestor.
description	description	An Optional Attribute of the Directory Services Schema.
description file	fichier de description	In Btrieve, a description file is an ASCII file containing information that the Maintenance utility commands CREATE, INDEX, and SINDEX need to perform their operations.
descriptor	descripteur	A data structure that uniquely identifies a hardware device or software function.
deselect	désélectionner	1. The reverse of select. You click away from (outside of) a selected object to deselect it.  2. To remove the mark (often an X) from a check box, or to remove a check mark from a menu item.  3. To click outside a selected object in the drawing window so that it is no longer selected. You can also deselect some active menu items or dialog box options by clicking them.
deselect	désélectionner	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), a menu item used to remove highlighting or some other visual cue from a previously selected item or element, such as removing highlighting from an item in a list.
designated primary server	serveur primaire désigné	The master primary server that services a primary zone; it is the only primary server of the zone that will update the zone information. It will also honor zone transfers. There is only one designated primary server per zone.
designated router	routeur désigné	The router in a NetWare Link Services Protocol (NLSP) internetwork that represents its network. It is responsible for exchanges of link state information on behalf of all other NLSP routers in the same LAN. Its two main functions are to a) Originate Link-State Advertisements (LSAs) on behalf of the network segment and b) Establish an adjacency relationship to all other routers on the network segment.
design-time	phase de conception	The time during which you create and modify the design of the objects and code in your application. Cf. runtime
deskless	sans bureau	Having no desk.
deskless workers	employés itinérants	Mobile employees who don't work inside a company building but who spend their working time with the customers.
desktop	bureau	1. The screen background and environment for all applications in Windows.  2. In GroupWise, the screen background and environment where applications appear by default or are placed by the user.  3. In the Macintosh operating system, the working environment of the Macintosh interface, which includes the menu bar and the background area on the screen.  4. The screen background on which windows, icons, and dialog boxes appear.
Desktop Management	gestion du bureau	Management of enterprise workstations.
Desktop Management Agent	agent de gestion de bureau	ZENworks for Desktops Management Agent. Software installed on a workstation that users in an all-Windows environment or users located outside of the corporate network firewall can use to log in and authenticate the workstation to Novell eDirectoryTM using any port over HTTP or port 443 over HTTPS.
Desktop Management Interface	interface de gestion de bureau	DMI. In ZENworks for Desktops and ZENworks for Servers, an industry-standard specification that the inventory scanner can use when looking for components on inventoried workstations or inventoried servers.
desktop services	services de bureau	Services destined for the personal computers (PC) or professional workstations.
destination	destination	Many computer commands move data from one file to another or from one storage device to another. This is referred to as moving the data from the source to the destination (or target).
destination address	adresse cible	In data communications, a code included in a transmission that specifies the location of the intended recipient of the transmission.
destination node	noeud cible	In the Open Systems Interconnection OSI model, either of the nodes that represent the host computers at each end of a connection. In a packet-switching network, the node attached to the data terminal equipment DTE that is receiving the data.
destination server	serveur cible	The NetWare server to which data files, bindery files, and other information are migrated from a previous NetWare version or another network operating system during upgrade.
destructive test	test destructeur	A surface test that acts like a disk format. It destroys data as it makes several passes over the disk surface, reading and writing test patterns.
details	détails	A link on/to the product information page.
detect	détecter	to discover or determine the existence, presence, or fact of <>
detect intruders	détecter les intrus	An optional password restriction that detects intruders who attempt to use a users account without the correct password.
developer	développeur	developer
device	périphérique	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), a physical or logical device (such as a printer, scanner, mouse, or joystick) that is accessible from the operating environment.
device	périphérique	A mechanical, electrical, or electronic peripheral with a specific purpose. For example, a printer or mouse, or, in AS/400, a synonym for logical unit (LU).
device driver	pilote de périphérique	The software or firmware that translates operating system requests (such as input/output requests) into a format that is recognizable by specific hardware, such as adapters, hard disks, or network boards.
device sharing	partage de périphérique	The shared use of resources (such as printers, modems, and disk storage space) by users or software programs.
DHCP	DHCP	Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol. A protocol used to assign dynamic IP addresses to devices on a network.
dial	composer	To make a telephone call or connection.
dial up access	accès réseau à distance	The temporary linking of a workstation to a server through a phone connection, in contrast to a phone line that is devoted full-time to no other purpose.
dialing properties	propriétés de numérotation	Dialing Properties define how your calls are dialed. For more information about setting dialing properties, see your Windows documentation.
dialog box	boîte de dialogue	
dial-up connection	connexion à distance	A type of connection to a public data network (PDN). A dial-up connection is used primarily to access data residing on remote hosts. The data transmission rate usually is slower than that of leased lines.
Dial-up connection	connexion via modem	Today, ZENworks for Desktops 4 provides a single solution with a single interface to manage every workstation and user environment in your organization—inside or outside the firewall, across the Internet, through dial-up or other slow connections, and even users who are completely disconnected from the network.
dial-up networking	accès au réseau via modem	
differential backup	sauvegarde différentielle	A backup type that backs up selected files that have been changed. This is used when only the latest version of a file is required.
digital assets	capital de données numériques	Inventory of an organisation which is not physical but digital in nature, i.e., data, software, etc.
digital signature	signature numérique	A digital guarantee that a file has not been altered, as if it were carried in an electronically sealed envelope.
direct access	accès direct	The post office access mode where the GroupWise client can write directly to users mailboxes. Direct access requires rights to the server where the post office is located.
direct access mode	mode d'accès direct	The post office access mode where the GroupWise client can write directly to users mailboxes. Direct access requires login rights to the server where the post office is located.
direct attached storage	stockage à attachement direct	Disk drives contained within the computer cabinet and connected to the CPU via PCI or some other peripheral bus. This contrasts with NAS devices (network attached storage devices) or SAN devices (storage area network devices), which are external storage units connected to workstations and servers over the network. (source: TechWeb)
direct link	liaison directe	A type of link (mapped, UNC, or TCP/IP) between two GroupWise domains. With these links, each MTA transfers messages directly between domains.
direct report	subordonné direct	An employee, dependant that works under the supervision of a manager to whom s/he reports.
direct reports	subordonné direct	From a manager's perspective, the employee who reports directly to him/her
directory	répertoire	A collection of files and other subdirectories. Directories are information containers, like files. However, instead of text or other data, directories contain files and other directories. In addition, directories are hierarchically organized; that is, a directory has a parent directory "above" and may also have subdirectories "below." Similarly, each subdirectory can contain other files and also can have more subdirectories. Because they are hierarchically organized, directories provide a logical way to organize files.  In some operating systems (eg MS Windows), directories are called "folders"
Directory	Annuaire	A network database that provides look-up information for a single, logical NDS network. In larger networks, the database is usually distributed across multiple servers. The entries in the database provide access-control information for the individual users, servers, printers, and other objects in the network.
directory access control request	requête de droit de contrôle d'accès aux objets Annuaire	This type of Directory Services request sets access rights to Directory objects. In this respect, directory access rights resemble file access rights.
directory agent	agent de répertoire	Novell Enterprise Server agent that responds to directory-related events that take place when something has occurred to a directory on the server.
directory agent	agent Annuaire	An agent which maintains a database of service URLs representing network services.
directory caching	caching de répertoires	A NetWare feature that decreases the time it takes to determine a file's location on a disk. The location is read from the network server's memory, where copies of the file allocation table and the directory entry table are written.
directory entry	entrée de répertoire	Basic information for NetWare server directories and files, such as file or directory name, owner, date and time of the last update (for files), location of the first block of data on the network hard disk. Directory entries are located in a directory entry table (DET) on a network hard disk and contain information about all files on the volume.
directory entry table	table des entrées de répertoires	(DET) A table that contains basic information about files, directories, directory trustees, or other entities on the volume.
directory exchange	échange d'annuaires	A GroupWise gateway process of automatically propagating changes in the local GroupWise database directory to remote or external foreign directories. During a directory exchange, an update of everything in the database directory takes place at a given time.
directory flag	drapeau d'annuaire	A configuration setting that lets you define whether to have objects read parent containers or groups for a User, Container, or Group object. By default, the Public user object is flagged to not read parent containers or groups
directory handle	identificateur de répertoire	A number used to identify the directory objects.
Directory Information Base	base de données des informations de l'Annuaire	DIB  The database that holds the Directory Services information is called the Directory Information Base (DIB), but is often referred to simply as the Directory. The DIB can be broken up into partitions that can be stored at seperate locations.
directory information tree	arborescence des informations d'annuaire	DIT. The Directory's logical structure
directory management request	requête de gestion de l'Annuaire	A request that controls the physical distribution of the Novell Directory Services database. Through these requests, system administrators can install new Directory partitions and manage their replicas.?
directory map object	objet Assignation de répertoire	In the NDS tree, a leaf object that represents a path on a volume. It allows users to map a drive to a resource without knowing its physical location. If the path to the resource changes, only the Directory Map needs to be updated; users' MAP commands stay the same.
directory object	objet Annuaire	An entity defined in the NDS database. Each object consists of properties and the values for the properties. There are three general categories of NDS objects: container objects, leaf objects, and the [Root] object.
directory path	chemin de répertoire	The full specification that includes server name, volume name, and name of each directory leading to a file system directory. The position of a file within the file system is its directory path.
directory rights	droits sur les répertoires	Rights that control what a trustee can do with a directory.
Directory Services	services Annuaire	DS  A network service that provides information about an entity of interest. It is like an electronic phone book to help network clients find services. There are several designs, including the X.500 standard, the Domain Name System, and NDS.  NDS is a global, distributed, replicated database built into NetWare that maintains information about every resource on the network. It enables centralized management of networks of any size, and has a hierarchical, tree-like structure.
directory synchronization	synchronisation des annuaires	A GroupWise gateway process of automatically propagating changes in the local GroupWise database directory to remote or external foreign directories. As changes occur, they are sent as directory service messages to the gateways.
directory system agent	agent système d'annuaire	DSA. An OSI application process that provides Directory functionality. (Similar to an NDS partition)
directory table	table de répertoires	A table located on a network volume that contains information about files, directories, directory trustees, or other directory entries for the particular volume on which it is located.
directory tree name	nom de l'arborescence Annuaire	A name, which can contain from 1 to 32 characters, assigned during installation to each Directory tree. It can contain upper and lower case letters, numbers, hyphens, and underscores, but no spaces or trailing underscores.
directory user agent	agent utilisateur d'annuaire	DUA. An OSI application process that represents a user in accessing the Directory and uses the Directory Access Protocol (DAP) to communicate with the DSA
directory-based access management	gestion d'accès basée sur annuaire	Solution that grants users inside and outside of the organisation safe access.
directory-enabled application	application d'annuaire	An application which uses and/or contributes to the collection of information stored in the directory.
dirty cache buffer	tampon cache altéré	
dirty page	page modifiée	A page in memory that has been modified since it was copied from disk to main memory, but those modifications have not been saved to disk yet. Compare with "clean page"
dirty workstation	poste de travail aux données d'analyse inutilisables	A workstation that gets an improper or outdated scan.
DirXML driver	pilote DirXML	A container object that represents the configuration for a single DirXML driver that communicates with an instance of an application. It typically contains a DirXML subscriber object, a DirXML publisher object, and one or more DirXML rule and/or DirXML stylesheet objects. It has configuration attributes that describe DirXML rules used for both inbound and outbound data. It also has a configuration attribute that references the driver shim used to communicate with the application, and configuration attributes for the driver shim.
DirXML driver set	ensemble de pilotes DirXML	A container object that represents the set of drivers for applications that run on a particular eDirectory server. It contains one or more DirXML driver objects and has configuration attributes for the DirXML engine that runs on the eDirectory server associated with the driver set.
DirXML publisher	objet Éditeur DirXML	A container object that represents configuration information for the inbound synchronization channel. It typically contains several DirXML rule and/or DirXML stylesheet objects. It has a configuration attribute that describes the publisher channel filter, and configuration attributes that reference the DirXML rules used for inbound data.
DirXML rule	règle DirXML	An object that contains the XML document describing a DirXML rule with simplified XML syntax. These rules may be the schema mapping rule, the create rule, the placement rule, and the matching rule.
DirXML stylesheet	feuille de style DirXML	An object that contains the XML document containing the XSLT script that implements a DirXML rule. Any DirXML rule may be implemented using an XSLT script.
DirXML Subscriber	objet Abonné DirXML	A container object that represents configuration information for the outbound synchronization channel. It typically contains several DirXML rule and/or DirXML stylesheet objects. It has a configuration attribute that describes the subscriber channel filter, and configuration attributes that reference the DirXML rules used for outbound data.
disable	désactiver	This setting disables the logging mode.
disable	désactiver	To turn off or temporarily prevent an event, function, or feature.
disassemble	désassembler	To convert a program in its executable (ready-to-run) form (sometimes called object code) into a representation in some form of assembler language so that it is readable by a human.
disaster recovery	reprise après sinistre	Recovering laptop data after system failure etc.
discard	rejeter	To throw away or get rid of (something).
disclaimer	exclusion de garantie	A waiving notice given to end customers.
disconnect	déconnecter	To drop a connection.
disconnected authentication	authentification en mode déconnecté	A feature which provides an authentication service on a workstation while the computer is not connected to the network, preventing casual and unauthorized access to a user profile on Windows 95 and Windows 98 workstations.
disconnected login	login en mode déconnecté	NDS authenticated login to a computer when no connection to eDirectory is available.
discontinued phase	phase de discontinuation	In Novell Support Life Cycle, the last of four phases a product goes through, the other ones being Shipping, Maintenance, and Mature. A product enters the Discontinued phase at the end of its Mature phase. It is no longer displayed in the shipping product list, i.e., it is no longer available for purchase, and the support level associated with the product is at its lowest, i.e. no direct support will be provided by Novell, no bug found will be fixed, and only existing patches and fixes will be applied.
discontinued product	produit discontinué	In Novell Support, a product that is no longer displayed in the shipping product list, i.e., it is no longer available for purchase, and the support level associated with the product is at its lowest, i.e. no direct support will be provided by Novell, no bug found will be fixed, and only existing patches and fixes will be applied.
discover	découvrir	to discover or determine the existence
discovery	découverte	The ability of a user to browse and/or consume the contents of a directory. Discovery is recognizing people and resources, assigning characteristics to them, establishing relationships among them, updating changes to them, and optimizing searches for them. Directory services must provide a mechanism for the discovery and recognition of resources within the network.
discussion group	groupe de discussion	A collection of articles on a similar topic kept on one or more Internet news servers.
discussion group manager	gestionnaire de groupes de discussion	The utility for discussion group management
discussion group replication	réplication de groupe de discussion	The process by which two or more Internet news servers exchange articles and share information. Servers can accept discussion groups, send discussion groups, or both.
discussion replication log	journal de réplication des discussions	The discussion replication log provides information about incoming discussion groups, including information about which articles your server accepts, which articles your server rejects, and why articles are rejected.
disk allocation block	bloc d'allocation de disque	Data storage unit used by volumes.  They come in 5 sizes: 4KB, 8KB, 16KB, 32KB, and 64KB. Disk allocation block sizes can vary from volume to volume, but one volume can only have one block size. It represents the smallest file size for that volume.
disk array	pile de disques	storage system
disk cache	cache de disque	A disk cache or cache is an area of RAM memory used to store data accessed frequently from disk.?Caches are very useful for increasing the performance of applications that have to access a lot of data from disk, like databases and spreadsheets.
disk controller	contrôleur de disque	A hardware device that controls how data is written to and retrieved from the disk drive. The disk controller sends signals to the disk drive's logic board to regulate the movement of the head as it reads data from or writes data to the disk.
disk drive	unité de disque	A peripheral storage device that reads from and writes to magnetic or optical discs. The operating system assigns a unique name to each installed drive.
disk driver	pilote de disque	Software that transfers or interprets commands between the operating system and the hard disk. The disk driver communicates through an adapter connected by an internal cable to the disk drive.
disk I/O	E/S disque	Communication between a computer and its storage devices.
disk logging	consignation sur disque	Sets whether or not information to be logged is written to log files. When disk logging is turned off, no information is stored on disk.
disk mirroring	mise en miroir de disques	The duplication of data from the NetWare partition on one hard disk to the netWare partition on another hard disk.
disk partition	partition de disque	In hard disk storage, a logical division of a physical hard disk. In NetWare, a logical division of a server hard disk, or volume.
disk pooling	mutualisation de disques / disques mutualisés	disks are put in common to save storage space
disk pooling	mise en commun et mutualisation des disques	Free disk space from one or more devices are pooled and can be used like a volume.
disk space management	gestion de l'espace disque	A GroupWise 6.0 feature that limits the size of user mailboxes and forces users to archive or delete messages when the limit is exceeded.
disk subsystem	sous-système de disque	An external unit that attaches to the NetWare server and contains hard disk drives, a tape drive, optical drives, or any combination of these. A disk subsystem increases server storage capacity.
disk usage summary	résumé de l'utilisation du disque	Determine how much disk space a discussion group hierarchy is consuming, how many articles are contained in the hierarchy, and the location of the hierarchy in the spool.
dismount	démonter	In NetWare, to make a volume unavailable to users.
dispatcher	répartiteur	One of the core services that provide the essential communication between the modules that work together to provide the print services.  The dispatcher routes requests from the UNICON administration utility to the services that do the actual work.
display	afficher	To make data or images appear on a monitor.
display	écran	1. In Novells X Windows standard, and in the UnixWare Screen Interface SI, a server, together with its screens and input devices, is called a display. 2. In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, a hardware device for presenting visual information.
display screen	écran	A data entry device that uses a keyboard for input and a display screen for output. Although the display screen resembles a TV, it usually does not accept TV/video signals.
display settings	paramètres d'affichage	Mailbox items can be displayed based on their type by using the display settings. These settings include received items, sent items, documents, and more.
distance vector	vecteur de distance	Short for "distance vector algorithm." An algorithm that finds best-path routes among routers by calculating total distance over which a packet would travel on each alternative route. Usually the shortest distance is the preferred route, but different routing levels, if defined, are considered as well.
distance vector algorithm	algorithme à vecteur de distance	An algorithm that finds best-path routes among routers by calculating total distance over which a packet would travel on each alternative route. Usually the shortest distance is the preferred route, but different routing levels, if defined, are considered as well. Distance vector algorithms are included in ISOs Interdomain Routing Protocol IDRP, and routing information protocols RIPs in both TCP/IP and in IPX/SPX.
distance vector protocol	protocole à vecteur de distance	A protocol that uses the distance vector algorithm. Examples include IP RIP, IPX RIP, and Routing Table Maintenance Protocol RTMP.
distance vector router	routeur à vecteur de distance	A router that uses the distance vector algorithm to exchange information about accessible networks. A router using the distance vector algorithm maintains only enough information to know how to reach the next router destination (hop) on the network. Distance vector routers periodically forward this information to each other, even if the information has not changed since the last update
distinguished name	nom distinctif	DN  1. The complete name, or path, from an object to the [Root] of the Directory tree.  2. The complete naming path from an object to the directory root. The distinguished name forms a unique reference that identifies the location and identity of an object.  The relative distinguished name (RDN) is the individual name or the partial name assigned to the object in a distinguished name. For example, if you are in the Finance organization context, Jack's RDN is JACK.USERS. If you are in the User's context, Jack's RDN is JACK.  The common name (CN) is the ID assigned to the object in a distinguished name. Common names must be unique within a context.
Distributed File Services (DFS)	DFS (Distributed File Services)	Distributed File Services (DFS)
distributed network	réseau distribué	A computer network on which processing is shared by many different parts of the network. Processing may be shared by client local computers, file servers, print servers and application servers such as database servers. Distributed processing enables the most efficient use of processing power because available processors can be dynamically assigned as either general or job specific processors, depending on the type of work to be done and the existing work load. Distributed processing also enables duplication and distribution of key services, such as directory services, so that full services remain available regardless of the failure of individual parts of the network. A NetWare network is an excellent example of a distributed network.
distributed reference link	lien de référence distribué	Every eDirectory object has an attribute that corresponds to the external reference (see "external reference"), called a distributed reference link (DRL).  A DRL maintains a list of all the external references created for an object.  eDirectory periodically verifies DRLs, and if the associated external reference no longer exists, the DRL is deleted.
distribution list	liste de distribution	A distribution list is a set of users and resources that can be addressed as a group. Each distribution list has a unique name and is used to address a message to every user and resource on the list.
distribution list object	objet Liste de distribution	An object that represents GroupWise distribution list.
distributor	grossiste	A company which supplies goods to the businesses which sell them.
dithering	juxtaposition	A technique used in computer graphics to create the illusion of varying shades of gray on a monochrome display or printer, or additional colors on a color display or printer.
DMA	DMA	Direct Memory Access.
DMI	interface de gestion de bureau	Desktop Management Interface. In ZENworks for Desktops and ZENworks for Servers, an industry-standard specification that the inventory scanner can use when looking for components on inventoried workstations or inventoried servers.
DMS library	bibliothèque DMS	Database used by GroupWise Document Management Services (DMS) for storing documents.
DNS domain	domaine DNS	A group of networked computers under common Domain Name System (DNS) management. Domains can be determined by logical grouping instead of physical location. The domain naming scheme reflects the structure of the DNS hierarchy.
DNS federation	fédération DNS	In NDS eDirectory 8.5, the DNS and NDS name spaces have been federated (that is, joined or united). As a result, an NDS tree that is based on NDS eDirectory 8.5 can use both the NDS naming system and DNS (depending on how you install the NDS tree). In essence, this DNS federation enables your NDS tree to use DNS when it cannot use the NDS naming system. More specifically, if you set up an NDS tree to support DNS federation, that tree can potentially use DNS to locate other NDS trees.
DNS Resolver	Résolveur DNS	
dock	arrimer	In Novell GroupWise WorkFlow, to attach, or anchor, a toolbar or palette to one edge of the screen or application window. For example, you can dock the step palette on the right side of the Ensemble window.
docking computer station	station d'accueil	A base station for a laptop that turns the portable computer into a desktop system. The docking station typically has one or two slots for expansion boards and may house speakers and other peripherals such as a CD-ROM drive. Source: Techweb
document agent	agent de document	Novell Enterprise Server agent that responds to document-related events that take place when something has occurred to a document on the server.
document database	base de données de documents	Document databases store documents and all related document information.
document handle	identificateur de document	A handle of a document.
document life	durée de vie du document	In document management for GroupWise 5.5 and above, one of three Document Type properties. Document Life specifies how long in days a document will remain in the document store before it is eligible to have its expiration action performed. Previously known as Retention Time.
Document Management Services	service de gestion des documents	DMS. A feature that enables users to make GroupWise the central management site for creating, locating, editing, viewing, and checking out documents.
Document object	objet Document	An object that represents an EDI message of a particular type, such as an ANSI 850 Purchase Order.
document property	propriétés du document	In GroupWise document management, information that is used to locate and manage documents. The information can include a documents type, version, retention time, and disposition.
document reference	référence au document	The document reference is a link to the document in the library.
document snapshot	instantané de document	The document snapshot is the actual document from the library attached to the message.
document status	état du document	In GroupWise DMS, status of a document in GroupWise library.
document storage area	zone de stockage de documents	A physical location, such as a drive volume, an optical device, a hard drive on other servers, etc., where documents can be stored to bypass storing them at the post office.
document window	fenêtre de document	In a graphical user interface, an independent window on a computer screen in which document is displayed.
DOM Binding Specification	spécification DOM	A binding specification of DOM (Document Object Model).
domain	domaine	In GroupWise, a grouping of one or more post offices. A domain serves two main purposes: - It organizes post offices into a logical group for addressing and routing purposes within the GroupWise system. - Through eDirectory, it serves as the main administration unit for the GroupWise system.
DOMAIN	DOMAIN	Distributed Operating Multi-Access Interactive Network
domain	domaine	A high-level organizational grouping or naming hierarchy within the Internet. Domains commonly make up part of Internet addresses, and can include:  arpa - initial Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) domains  com - commercial or business groups  edu - colleges and universities  gov - government organizations  int - international organizations  mil - military  org - miscellaneous groups  net - network administrative hosts  two-digit alphanumeric string - a variable indicating a country  Syntactically, an Internet domain name consists of a sequence of names separated by periods.
domain	domaine	A high-level organizational grouping or naming hierarchy within the Internet. Domains commonly make up part of Internet addresses, and can include: arpa - initial Advanced Research Projects Agency ARPA domains com - commercial or business groups edu - colleges and universities gov - government organizations int - international organizations mil - military org - miscellaneous groups net - network administrative hosts two-digit alphanumeric string - a variable indicating a country Syntactically, an Internet domain name consists of a sequence of names separated by periods.
domain controller	contrôleur de domaine	
domain membership	adhésion au domaine	In GWIA, level of membership in access control settings. The Memberships list displays all members of the class of service. Membership can be assigned at a domain, post office, distribution list, or user level.
domain name service	service de noms de domaines	A component of DNS that provides the actual name-to-IP address mapping to locate another computer on the internetwork or Internet.
domain name system	système de noms de domaines	DNS  A distributed database that provides name-to-IP address mapping for computers on an internetwork or on the Internet.
domestic NICI	NICI locale	One of the two types of NICI.  The other is called Exportable NICI.   (128 bit)   This product is only available to U.S. and Canada customers. It is not available for export.  Important: If you are running an older version of NICI that contains domestic-grade crypto (128 bit), you will need to obtain domestic NICI 1.3.1 from Novell.
dont compress attribute	attribut Ne pas compresser	Dc A file system attribute that prevents the file, or the files in the directory and its subdirectories, from being compressed even when the threshold set by the server is reached. In the case of a directory, individual files marked with the Immediate Compress attribute are unnaffected by this attribute.
Don't Compress attribute	attribut Ne pas compresser	Dc. A file system attribute that prevents the file, or the files in the directory and its subdirectories, from being compressed even when the threshold set by the server is reached.
dont migrate attribute	attribut Ne pas migrer	Dm A file system attribute that prevents an individual file, or the files in the directory and its subdirectories, from being migrated to a secondary storage device such as a tape drive or optical disk even when the threshold set by the server is reached.
dont suballocate attribute	attribut Ne pas sous-allouer	Ds A file system attribute that prevents an individual file from being stored in suballocated unused portions of disk blocks, even if suballocation is enabled for the system.
dos boot record	enregistrement d'amorçage DOS	A record containing information that ROM-BIOS uses to determine which device to boot from. The boot record can be on either a floppy diskette, a local hard disk, or a remote boot chip.?
dos client	client DOS	A workstation that boots with DOS and gains access to the network through either the NetWare DOS Requester software and its VLM programs for NetWare 4, or a  NetWare shell for NetWare 2 and NetWare 3.
dos device	périphérique DOS	A storage unit compatible with the DOS disk format, usually a disk drive or tape backup unit.
dos dir scan	commande dir scan de DOS	DOS command used to view the contents of a directory.
dos extender	unité d'extension DOS	Software that is combined with a DOS application to allow it to run in extended memory beyond 1 MB. To gain access to extended memory, it runs the application in Protected Mode. When the application requests DOS services, the DOS extender either handles them itself or, with functions such as disk accesses, resets the machine to Real Mode, lets DOS service the request and then switches back into Protected Mode. Source: TechWeb
DOS prompt	invite DOS	1. The on-screen characters, such as C:\>, indicating that that you can enter DOS commands or a program name.  2. The greater-than symbol (>) that indicates DOS is ready for a command. The capital letter preceding this symbol indicates the current disk drive.
DOS requester	Requêteur DOS	The DOS client software portion of NetWare 4 and below. It is the connection point between local software (DOS) and network services. The DOS Requester is made up of many Virtual Loadable Module (VLM) files.
DOS text utility	utilitaire de texte DOS	A utility using DOS text to provide instructions to the network. DOS text utilities are command line and DOS menu utilities.
dot format	format à points	In eDirectory/NDS, the format using dots to separate individuals elements in an object path, e.g., username.mycontext.mytree.  Sometimes also called NDS Dot Format.
dotted line responsibility	responsabilité indirecte	Function of those with indirect responsibility.
double-byte character set	jeu de caractères double octet	DBCS
double-click	double-cliquer	1. To press and release the left mouse button twice in rapid succession to activate a program or program function. This action initiates a different function than a single click. 2. To quickly press a mouse button twice without moving the mouse pointer. Unless otherwise specified, mouse button 1 is assumed. In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, in the OSF/Motif Style Guide, to press and release a button on a pointing device twice without significantly moving the pointer and within a time specified by the operating environment.
double-click	double-clic	A mouse action where the user presses and releases the mouse button twice in quick succession. This action initiates a different function than a single click.
DOWN	DOWN	A server console command used to execute an orderly shutdown of the NetWare server before either turning off power to the server, or rebooting NetWare with new parameters or accessing DOS files.
download	téléchargement	In an application, the process of receiving a file from a remote source. For a printer, the process of transferring information from a disk drive or network into the printer's memory.
download	télécharger	To transfer files from a larger computer or network system to a workstation or smaller network using a network or modem connection.
down-server upgrade	Mise à niveau de serveur arrêté	A NetWare upgrade performed on a downed server. (Upgrades to newer NetWare versions are usually performed on a running server from the server GUI console.)
downsizing	micromisation	The trend to off-load some applications from propietary mainframe systems to smaller, less expensive, networked microcomputers.
downtime	temps hors service	Time when a system or network is unavailable or nonfuntional.
drag and drop	glisser-déplacer	1. To move text or an object by positioning the pointer on the item you want to move, pressing the left mouse button, moving the mouse which moves the text or object, then releasing the mouse button. 2. In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, to directly manipulate an icon by using a pointing device to move and place the icon somewhere else.
drag and drop	glisser-déplacer	In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, a user interaction in which a user drags source elements to a target element on which they are dropped. Also referred to as "drag transfer."
Drill Down	forer vers le bas	To move from summary information to the detailed data that created it.
drive lock	verrou d'unité	A lock that is applied to a media so the media cannot be removed from the device
drive mapping	assignation d'unité	A pointer to a location in a directory stucture, represented as a letter assigned to a directory path.
driver	pilote	A software module that manages the operation of a specific device or protocol and provides services to modules running above it. Drivers allow higher-level modules, such as applications, to be device- and protocol-independent able to run on any device or protocol for which a driver is available.
driver	pilote	The piece of code that allows DirXML to communicate with an external application in order to synchronize data between that application and NDS
driver dependency tree	arborescence de dépendances de pilotes	A set of drivers that are connected to each other by dependency relationships. All drivers in a given dependency tree must be members of a single group.
driver shim	module d'interface pilote	The program that communicates between the DirXML engine and the Event Server program.
drop	placer	Dropping means letting go of the mouse button when you have reached your destination.
drop box folder	dossier Boîte de dépôt	A folder in which a user has the Create and File Scan rights. The user can copy a file into the folder, but cannot see the folders contents, delete files in the folder, or search the folder.
drop cable	câble de dérivation	Cable used in thick Ethernet to attach a media attachment unit MAU to a network device. The maximum distance is 50 meters.
drop target	cible de dépôt	In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, when using drag and drop, a rectangular graphic that represents the drop zone in an application.
DS	DS	Initialism for "Don't Suballocate attribute."
DS	DS	data segment
DS	DS	Directory Services
DS	DS	digital service  A data transmission standard, as in DS-0.
DST	heure d'été (DST)	Daylight Savings Time
dual processing	bi-traitement	A NetWare SFT III configuration that assigns parts of the operating system (the IOEngine and the MSEngine) to separate CPUs. It is also possible to run both engines on the same CPU, but running them on separate processors is what creates a dual processing system.
dual-homed gateway	passerelle à double interface réseau	One of the basic types of firewalls.  Blocks direct traffic between the private network and the Internet.  Access can be allowed by using application gateways such as Telnet forwarders, or by giving users logins on the gateway host.  Break-ins is limited to the host that is reachable from the Internet, although once illegal access is gained, security is severely compromised.
dual-port loopback test	test en boucle sur deux ports	A test that involves connecting two ports of a router through a modem eliminator or a pair of DSU/CSUs.
dumb terminal	terminal passif	A computer screen and keyboard without a CPU or disk drive, connected to a multi-user system. Such a terminal runs programs and stores files on the central system only.
dummy receive buffer	tampon de réception fictif	A bogus receive buffer that is added to the end of the receive buffer list so as to avoid internal data corruption caused by a 82586 error ie when the 82586 attempts to receive data into a nonexistent receive buffer at the end of its receive buffer list.
dump file	fichier de vidage	A binary file that contains the complete state of a program
Dump mode	mode Dump (vidage)	In ZENworks for Desktops, an imaging mode that shows information about storage devices and partitions on the computer.
duplex	recto-verso	To duplicate data on two hard disks using separate controllers and separate disk channels. If the original disk or channel fails, the duplicate disk takes over automatically. This provides a means of data protection.
duplex printing	impression recto-verso	Printing on both sides of a page.
dynamic configuration	configuration dynamique	In Windows, the ability to add or remove hardware while the machine is running so that applications can recognize and adapt to the changes.
dynamic configuration	configuration dynamique	In networking, a means of allowing the file server to allocate memory or other resources as needed, subject to availability, while the network is running.
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol	protocole DHCP	Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is a protocol that lets network administrators centrally manage and automate the assignment of Internet Protocol (IP) addresses in an organization's network. DHCP uses the concept of a "lease" or amount of time that a given IP address will be valid for a computer.
dynamic link library	bibliothèque de liens dynamiques	DLL A set of related program routines and data that is used by applications at run-time and that can be used as a common resource by many programs.
dynamic link routine	routine à lien dynamique	In OS/2 and MS Windows 3.x, a program that the operating system loads on demand dynamically and terminates automatically.
dynamic memory	mémoire dynamique	Memory used for random-access memory (RAM) that continuously rewrites all stored information. All data is lost from dynamic memory when the system shuts down.
dynamically adjusting limit	limite à ajustement dynamique	One of two eDirectory 8.6 default cache settings for controlling cache memory consumption, the other one being Fixed memory limit (see this term). The dynamically adjusting limit causes eDirectory to periodically adjust its memory consumption in response to the variations in the memory consumption by other processes. The limit is specified as a percentage of available physical memory.
Early adopter program	programme EAP (Early Adopter Program)	This program provides users new features to enhance their productivity and gives them the opportunity to influence future enhancements in the respective Novell product being adopted at an early stage.
Easy Upgrade Fulfillment	Mise à jour facile	A website where customers may request the media for a new version. If a new version of a product for which Upgrade Protection or Maintenance has been purchased is released, the customer is immediately licensed to use the new version. This can be done via this website.
eBusiness	eBusiness	Any business that is deriving revenue at least in part from something "electronic," usually on the Internet.
e-business	e-Business	Business conducted on the Internet. It includes buying and selling products and services, servicing customers, and collaborating with business partners
ECB	ECB	Event Control Block.
Echo	ECHO	
ECMAScript extensions	extensions ECMAScript	Extended features enabled by ECMAScript.
ECMAScript Screen object	objet Ecran ECMAScript	An ECMAScript object that handles a screen.
ecne	ECNE	Enterprise Certified Novell Engineer A Novell certification for Certified Novell Engineers CNEs who have been certified to support enterprise-wide networks and who want to demonstrate a higher level of expertise. CNEs can obtain ECNE certification by passing additional tests. ECNE candidates are required to demonstrate proficiency in the NetWare 4 network operating system. ECNEs may advertise their services as a source of competent, quality support beyond the CNE level.
e-commerce	commerce électronique	Electronic Commerce - Doing business online, typically via the Web. It is also called e-business, e-tailing and I-commerce. It may also refer to electronic data interchange EDI, in which one companys computer queries and transmits purchase orders to another companys computer. TechEncyclopedia http://www.techweb.com/encyclopedia/ raburto 8/19/99
ecosystem	écosystème	A system formed by the interaction of a community of organisms with their physical environment. Also, ecosystems (short for ecological systems) are functional units that result from the interactions of abiotic, biotic, and cultural components.
EDI Document Metadata	métadonnées du document EDI	Metadata that describes an EDI Document resource.
EDI Interchange Metadata	métadonnées d'échange EDI	A structured set of elements that essentially describe various types of EDI interchanges in an XML format Composer can understand.
eDirectory	eDirectory	Novell eDirectory is a powerful and proven cross-platform directory service. eDirectory delivers the precise identity control and strong, scalable foundation users need to build a profitable secure identity-management solution.
Education Partner Information	Informations relatives aux partenaires Education	Detailed information of Novell Education Partners.
Effective Date	date d'entrée en vigueur	The date in which a document becomes valid.
effective policy	règle effective	Effective policies are the sum of all enabled policies in all policy packages associated directly or indirectly to an object. Just as the effective rights in NDS flow down the tree, policy package associations flow down the tree, unless there is an explicit association for an object with a policy package.
effective rights	droits effectifs	The rights that an object can exercise to see or modify a particular directory, file, or object. Effective rights are a combination of inherited rights, explicitly granted rights, and security equivalences. An object's effective rights to a directory, file, or object are calculated by the system each time that object attempts an action.
EGP	EGP	
EIDE (Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics)	EIDE (Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics - électronique améliorée de lecteurs intégrés); interface EIDE	Improved IDE standard that allows hard disks with a size over 512 MB.
Electronic Document Interchange	EDI (Electronic Document Interchange)	An exchange of documents in electronic form.
electronic form of accreditation certificate	certificat électronique d'accréditation	electronic confirmation of successful subscription to Novell PartnerNet program.
electronic mail	message électronique	e-mail. Transmission of messages over a communications network.
elevator seeking	requête pour l'optimiseur d'accès disque	A process where the hard disk read-write head picks up data in the direction it is traveling across the disk, rather than in the order data is requested. In this way, disk I/O requests are organized logically according to disk head position as they arrive at the server for processing. This reduces back-and-forth movements of the disk head and minimizes head seek times.
e-mail	message électronique	Short for electronic mail, a communications service for computer users by which they can send messages and files to each other on network or telephone lines.
e-mail address	adresse électronique	
email notification	notification par message électronique	
embed	incorporer	1. To place an object created in one application into a document created in another application. For example, you can embed text created in WordPerfect into a WP Presentations drawing window. You can also embed an object into another object. 2. In GroupWise, to place an object created in an OLE server application into a document or view created in an OLE client application. For example, you can embed a graphics file created in WP Presentations into a GroupWise item view. The embedded object can be edited from within the view.
embedded network intelligence	intelligence de réseau intégrée	Data in a network which are embedded in a special environment.
embedded scsi	SCSI embarqué	A hard disk that has a Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI and a hard disk controller built into the hard disk unit.
EMEA Security Center	centre de sécurité EMEA	Security center in Europe, Middle East and Africa.
empty	vider	
empty the trash	vider la corbeille	In GroupWise Client, to purge all items from Trash folder.
enable	activer	To turn on. Contrast with disable.
encapsulation	encapsulation	The technique used by protocols in which a layer adds header information to the protocol data unit PDU from the preceding layer. Also used in enveloping one protocol inside another for transmission, for example, Internet Protocol IP inside IPX.
encrypted password	mot de passe codé	A password that has been encoded for security purposes
encryption	codage	The process of scrambling or coding data for security purposes.
encryption certificate	certificat de codage	Certificate revocation list has been checked successfully for the encryption certificate.
encryption key	clé de codage	If you do not want to use the default encryption key, you can enter your own key.
end date	date de fin	The date that a task is due.
end node	noeud de fin	The machine or unit (node) that serves as an originator and as the final destination of network traffic. The end node does not relay traffic originated by other nodes.
end time	heure de fin	The end time of an appointment.
enforce	appliquer	With detailed inventory reports of desktop hardware and software, across multiple operating systems, ZENworks for Desktops helps companies enforce standard configurations, prepare for upgrades, determine device locations and meet corporate asset reporting requirements.
enhanced protection	protection étendue	With the Enhanced Protection option enabled for any secret in Novell* SecretStore, if you change the user’s NDS* password, SecretStore enters a locked state. SecretStore can only be unlocked if the user provides the last NDS password that was set. Since an administrator should not know the user’s previous NDS password, Enhanced Protection-protected secrets are kept safe.
ENS	ENS	Event Notification Service  A brokered service in NDPS that allows printers to send customizable notifications to users and operators about printer events and print job status. This service supports a variety of delivery methods including NetWare pop-ups, log files, e-mail (GroupWise), and third-party programs.
enterprise imaging	création d'images à l'échelle de l'entreprise	Feature that allows admins to deploy software and OS without having to configure them on each workstation separately.
Enterprise Linux Desktop	bureau Enterprise Linux	Linux in a corporate, commercial enterprise setting from a programmers' or technicians' perspective.  It creates a reliable, secure, high performance platform designed for today's commercial environments--with capabilities that match or surpass those of proprietary operating systems.
Enterprise Web Server	Enterprise Web Server	Web server shipped with NetWare.
enterprise-wide administrator	administrateur au niveau entreprise	An NDS administrator role for administering the tree at the root level.
entitize	transformer en entité	Make something into an entity.
Entitlement Admin	Gestion des droits	Link that takes you to the Entitlement tool with which you can administer access rights to people in your company
Entity	entité	In computer-aided design and object-oriented design, an item that can be treated as a unit and as a member of a particular category or type. In object-oriented programming, an entity is oart if the definition of a class of objects.
Entrust	Entrust	A third party "key management" system. Issues certificates for encryption and signing. Verifies certificate validity. Creates encrypted/signed messages. Verifies and decrypts encrypted/signed messages. All users that are to send/receive encrypted messages must be added to Entrust's database.
entry cache	cache d'entrées	An new feature in eDirectory 8.6 that caches the logical Directory entries and structure of the eDirectory database. Compare with "block cache"
entry point	point d'entrée	When applied to software, entry point refers to the point where a program starts to execute.
entry right	droit sur l'entrée	A type of access control right that gives a trustee rights that affect an entry as a whole, not just its attributes.
envelope	enveloppe	An envelope is a file containing one or more license certificates. (It may have just one certificate because the envelope also contains other information---for example, for NIS-enabled installations---associated with the product.) Envelopes allow you to install more than one license certificate at a time into License container objects. For example, you may have purchased three products in a suite. An envelope allows you to simultaneously install license certificates for all three products.
envelope file	fichier enveloppe	An .NLF file that contains one or more license certificates; a convenient way of packaging multiple license certificates to be distributed as a single file.
envelope wrap	enveloppe	Special segments that enclose the transaction set, and contain IDs and other pertinent information allowing the document to be electronically transferred to and from the appropriate locations.
environment	environnement	In GroupWise Client, a customization option that includes following settings - General, Views, File location, Cleanup, Signature.
epoch	période	The starting time an date from which an operating system's clock is measured.  The epoch is different on different computers.
epoch	période	An epoch is an instant in time that is arbitrarily selected as a point of reference.  It is used here to mean a new version.  An epoch controls replica synchronization.  When a new epoch is declared, it begins on the master replica.  Other replicas cannot send updates to to a replica with a new epoch, but they will receive updates from the master replica until they become fully synchronized with it.  When this process completes, all replicas have the same epoch, and can synchronize with other again.
ePortal	ePortal	one of applications in exteNd suites
Equivalent to me attribute	attribut Équivalent à moi	An optional, multivalued eDirectory object property that lists the users that are granted security equivalence to this object.
erase	Effacer	Short for "Erase right."
erase	effacer	To remove an item of data from a file/tape or to remove a file from the disk/tape.
Erase right	droit Effacer	A file system right that grants the ability to delete directories, subdirectories, or files.
error code	code d'erreur	A hexadecimal or decimal number indicating that a software or hardware error has occurred that does not allow NetWare to continue processing. This number is usually displayed within a system message for an application, although it might be displayed by itself, or with a description of the code, or with words such as "error code," "return code," "return value," or just "code" preceding it.
error file	fichier d'erreurs	A file that keeps track of a computer’s or application’s errors.
error log	journal d'erreurs	A record of the system messages that have appeared on the server console. It is stored as a text file on the server and keeps growing until the network administrator clears it.  The system messages in the log might be related to NDS synchronization, file migration, NLM execution, disk mirroring, or any other server operation.
error report	rapport d'erreurs	
Ethernet	Ethernet	A high-speed local area network hardware standard that consists of a cable technology and a series of communication protocols. Ethernet uses a bus topology (configuration) and relies on the CSMA/CD access method. It is the primary communications circuitry used in many mainframe, PC, and UNIX networks.
Evaluation drivers	pilotes d'évaluation	Drivers that are evaluation versions and are only provided for evaluation purposes. Any drivers/connectors included with the Software other than Licensed Drivers.
evaluation software	logiciel d'évaluation	A trial version of software product.
event	événement	
event	événement	Network message that indicates operational irregularities in thephysical elements of a network, or a response to the occurrence of a significant task.
event control block	bloc de contrôle d'événement (ECB)	ECB  A structure that controls events related to the transmission and reception of IPX and SPX packets. ECBs also control the establishment and termination of SPX sessions.
event counter	compteur d'événements	A mechanism that counts events. Also a string of numbers used to denote how many events have occurred.
event log	journal des événements	GroupWise Monitor file(s) where error messages, status messages, and other types of event-related messages are recorded.
event notification	notification d'événement	A notification about the event that has been occurred.
event notification service	service de notification d'événements	ENS  A brokered service in NDPS that allows printers to send customizable notifications to users and operators about printer events and print job status. This service supports a variety of delivery methods including NetWare pop-ups, log files, e-mail (GroupWise), and third-party programs.
event tag	étiquette d'événement	
event transformation	transformation de l'événement	An XSLT stylesheet that describes how actions are to be transformed to other actions. For example, it may be desirable to convert a modify event to a delete event under certain conditions. This rule can also be used to specify a set of other actions that should take place when a given event occurs.
exception	exception	A condition, often an error, that causes the program or microprocessor to branch to a different routine. The terms interrupt and exception are very close in meaning. Both can be used to refer to either hardware or software. The only real difference is that an exception usually indicates an error condition.
excluded directory	répertoire exclus	A directory within the replication set whose entire content, including any subdirectories and their contents, is not replicated to the replica server. Instead, a name-only directory is created on the replica server, showing the name of the excluded directory only. This directory has no content on the replica server.  An excluded directory is shown in the Replication panel as a folder icon containing a minus (-) symbol.
exclusive	exclusif	Not accompanied by others; single or sole.
exclusive access	accès exclusif	Exclusive access to file denied
execute	exécuter	Same as run. Execute means to perform an action, as in executing a program or a command.
expand	agrandir	To open (something) up or out; spread out. In computing, to decompress a compressed file.
expanded memory	mémoire paginée	Memory that lies outside the normal DOS address space but that can be made addressable in 16 KB units, called pages, through an area called a page frame. Expanded memory is available for 8086, 8088, and 80286 systems through expanded memory specification (EMS) compliant memory boards, or for 80386 and 80486 systems through EMS emulators. Expanded memory is mainly designed to store data and certain numbers.
expansion guide	guide d'expansion	
Expansion Pack	Expansion Pack	Expansion Pack is the only way of expanding the unique licensing constraints of some Starter Packs. It unlocks the Starter Pack license count limitations while expanding the number of Starter Pack users by five.
expansion slot	connecteur d'extension	A slot or a socket where the user can add interface cards to enhance the computer's hardware.
expert configuration	configuration avancée	An advanced TCP/IP configuration available in INETCFG server utility.
expert parameter	paramètre avancé	Any of the advanced parameters used to provide more specific control on packet-level operations (such as NetWare Link/X.25 Packet layer) and frame-level operations. Expert parameters are used to configure the more advanced aspects for a specific WAN call destination, and to configure permanent virtual circuits (PVCs).
expiration date	date d'expiration	The Expiration Date is used to set a date for deleting a user's GroupWise account, to expire the user nickname at a specified date and time or to cause unopened messages to expire after a set period of time. Also each document type has an expiration date and a expiration action associated with it. The system administrator defines the expiration date and action (delete or archive) when he or she creates the library.
expire	expirer	In GroupWise Administrator, an administrative action which eliminates expired messages for the selected objects.
expire	expirer	To become invalid due to the passage of a defined period of time.
expire program	programme d'expiration	When you no longer want to store an article, Novell* News Server uses the expire program to remove the article. The expire program purges articles from your spool and purges references from the History file as indicated by your configuration settings.  You can specify a default expiration policy for all discussion groups, or you can specify a custom expiration policy for a specific discussion group.
expire/reduce a message	faire expirer/réduire les messages	An administrative option which eliminates expired messages for the selected objects and reclaims any free space in the database. This option is available for Post Office databases only.
explicit trustee assignment	assignation d'ayant droit explicite	The Novell Directory Service (NDS) object rights that are granted exclusively to an object in the Directory tree. An explicit trustee assignment overrides any trustee assignments made higher up in the Directory tree.
export	exporter	To format data in such a way that it can be used by another application.
Export Compliance	Respect de la Réglementation en matière d'exportation	Any person or entity exporting or re-exporting Novell products directly or indirectly and via any means, including electronic transfer, is wholly responsible for doing so in accordance with the U.S. Export Administration Regulations and the laws of host countries.
export matrix	matrice d'exportation, classification des produits à l'exportation	The export matrix indicates product classifications in accordance with the U.S. Department of Commerce's Export Administration Regulations (EAR). The matrix is not intended to replace the EAR, but is to be used in conjunction with the EAR to provide classification information to assist you in the export of Novell's software. The matrix is available on www.novell.com site.
Expression Builder	générateur d'expressions	An interface in Composer that helps you construct valid ECMAScript and XPath syntax.
extant number	nombre d'extants	
exteNd Composer LDAP Connect	Connecteur LDAP d'exteNd Composer	Enables users to create integrated applications that store and retrieve information in LDAP directories, including Novell's market-leading eDirectory™.
exteNd Composer Process Manager	Gestionnaire de processus d'exteNd Composer	Offers an easy-to-use, visual design environment to orchestrate Web services interactions and create sophisticated, long-running business processes.
exteNd Composer T27 Connect	Connecteur T27 d'exteNd Composer	With this connector you can XML-enable applications running on Unisys mainframe computers—such as A Series, V Series and Clearpath NX Series mainframes. It enables you to include many Unisys applications—including LINC and MARC—in your systems integration or Web services solution.
exteNd Director Standard Edition	exteNd Director Standard Edition	Novell exteNd Director is a personal browser-based Webtop that you set up to immediately access needed tools and resources anywhere at anytime. This reduces time spent searching through a surplus of irrelevant data and Web content. It is a directory-driven software framework for creating a customized portal interface to access specified Web sites and applications.
extended attribute	attribut étendu	Extended Attributes are a type of file metadata defined by Microsoft. There is a common client API that allows a client application to write whatever it wants into a file's Extended Attribute--within a few constraints.
extensible policy	règle extensible	In ZENworks for Desktops, a policy that lets you control any application function that is configured in the Windows registry.
external ca	CA externe	A certificate authority that is managed by a third party. An example of an external CA is VeriSign**.
external domain	domaine externe	A primary or secondary domain in another GroupWise system that is defined in the local GroupWise system. An external domain provides the local system with information needed to route messages to users in the external domain. Compare with foreign domain.
external entity	entité externe	An external entity is an object created in eDirectory for the sole purpose of giving a non-eDirectory user an account on a GroupWise post office.
external reference	référence externe	A placeholder containing copies of information about entries that a server does not hold.
externalized application	application externalisée	An application that is exposed to external environment.
extranet	extranet	A network that allows a company to share information with other businesses and customers. Extranets transmit information over the Internet and require a user to have a password to access data on internal company servers.
factory install	installation en usine	An installation method that helps reduce the complexity and time spent on an installation. Much of the hardware configuration and file copy is done in the factory so that you need to use only the graphical portion of the NetWare installation to complete the on-site configuration. Because the network operating system files are precopied to the server, installation time is reduced to a few minutes
failure	échec	
faint	pâle	A display mode that uses faint light.
fall-through	fall-through	An execution flow which falls through Case statements.
family	famille	A series of hardware or software products that have some properties in common
Fan-In	activité de consolidation (fan-in)	An activity that collects results from multiple processes.
Fan-Out	activité de dissémination (fan-out)	An activity that produces multiple concurrent processes.
fan-out distribution	distribution en éventail	Distributing a software etc. "like a fan", i.e., starting at one point and fanning out broadly.
fan-out failover	reprise après échec ventilée	Load balancing the migration of resources to other nodes during a failover based on factors such as node traffic and availability of installed applications.
FAT	FAT	File Allocation Table.
fat applications	applications lourdes	Locally installed applications.
Fat Client	PC traditionnel	A client machine in a client/server environment that performs most or all of the application processing with little or none performed in the server. Contrast with thin client.  Also, Fat client is a type of software on the client side in the Client/Server model of application; specifically, "fat" adjective refers to the fact that full (or most of) data processing, business logic processing and presentation of the results of computing process takes place on client side, not on server side. "Fat client" is opposite of "thin client" (where little processing takes place on client side, mostly so called "presentation layer" is relevant in this model).
fat client	client lourd	Fat client is a type of software on the client side in the Client/Server model of application; specifically, "fat" adjective refers to the fact that full (or most of) data processing, business logic processing and presentation of the results of computing process takes place on client side, not on server side. "Fat client" is opposite of "thin client" (where little processing takes place on client side, mostly so called "presentation layer" is relevant in this model).
fault tolerance	tolérance aux pannes	
feature	fonction	A property or behavior of software or hardware.
features and benefits	fonctionnalités et avantages	A link on/to the product information page.
Federated Authentication	authentification fédérée	Identity management mechanism that provides support to a large number of authentication techniques, ranging from implementation of simple username and password to strong authentication techniques such as digital certificates, hardware tokens and biometric devices.
feed	alimentation	Material or an amount of material supplied, as to a machine or furnace. Also the act of supplying such material.
feeder activity	activité source (feeder)	An activity that provides its result for other activity.
Fibre Channel	Fibre Channel	The intention of the Fibre Channel (FC) is to develop practical, inexpensive, yet expendable means of quickly transferring data between workstations, mainframes, supercomputers, desktop computers, storage devices, displays and other peripherials.
field compression	compression de champ	In frame relay, the process of eliminating the All Stations Address and the Unnumbered Information fields from high-level data link control HDLC framing, on a per-data-link basis, so that unneeded overhead is reduced when low-bandwidth links are used.
field patch	correctif	A patch that has been tested and therefore is the FCS version. Compare with "field test patch"
field test patch	correctif soumis à des tests partiels	A patch that has not gone through a full system test. Normally it would have undergone minimal testing from the engineering team, confidence level would be reasonably high that it hasn't broken anything else, and that the customer would apply it at his own risk. Compare with "field patch".
file attribute	attribut de fichier	A particular value associated with a file. The file attribute may indicate what types of actions are allowed to be performed on the file, or who may access the file.
file cache	cache de fichiers	An area of server RAM where the hash table, FAT, Turbo FAT, directory cache, and temporary data storage for files are located.
file caching	caching de fichiers	The process of holding a file in server RAM so it can be retrieved quickly.
file compression	compression de fichier	A means of allowing more data to be stored on server hard disks by compressing (packing) files that arent being used. Enabling compression in NetWare volumes can effectively increase disk space by up to 63%.
file format	format de fichier	A format for encoding information in a file. Each different type of file has a different file format. The file format specifies first whether the file is a binary or ASCII file, and second, how the information is organized.
file handle	identificateur de fichier	A number used to refer to or identify a file.
file path	chemin d'accès au fichier	The exact directions to a file on a computer.
file right	droit sur le fichier	A NetWare file system property that controls what a trustee can do with a file or directory. File rights control the security in a directory structure.  File and directory rights are: Supervisor, Read, Write, Create, Erase, Modify, File Scan, Access Control.
file scan	analyse de fichiers	Short for "File Scan right."
File Scan right	droit Analyse de fichiers	A file system right that allows the trustee to see the file and its directory structure back to the root of the volume, or to see the files in the directory unless other rights are assigned below it.
file server	serveur de fichiers	A computer that controls the system, runs programs, and stores files for networks or multi-user systems. In NetWare, this is called a NetWare server.
file server assignment	assignation de serveur de fichiers	In Novell Licensing Services, some license certificates require a server assignment. For example, if no server is assigned to a certificate for a server base license, a server cannot access license units on the certificate.
file set	ensemble de fichiers	A collection of files.
file synchronization	synchronisation de fichiers	Keeping mobile data and data on network-workstations up to date.
file system	système de fichiers	The organization the NetWare server uses to store data on its hard disks. Each file is given a filename and stored at a specific location in a hierarchical filing system so that files can be located quickly.
fileset	ensemble de fichiers	A fileset of an image is an image from which a given file or folder has been excluded. Filesets exist merely as internal attributes of the same image archive. Also referred to as "variant".
Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS)	norme FHS (Filesystem Hierarchy Standard, norme de hiérarchie du système de fichiers)	A set of requirements and guidelines for file and directory locations under UNIX-like operating systems.
filter	filtre	The process on a router that selectively discards packets of a certain type, or packets originating from or destined for a certain location.
find out more	en savoir plus	A link on novell.com web pages that refers to the full article.
Finger	Finger	A UNIX/Linux command that provides information about users that are logged on.
firewall	pare-feu	A control mechanism, made up of hardware and software, that controls access to a computer system and the data residing on it. In effect, a firewall creates a boundry that can only be crossed or entered by users who are assigned the rights to do so. Firewalls are commonly used to prevent hostile attacks from outside a company, such as the spreading of viruses or theft of sensitive information. Firewalls may also be used to restrict or prevent users of a computer system from going outside the system (for example, to browse the Internet). Firewalls may be used to isolate and cordon off sensitive data while other data remains accessible.
firmware	microprogramme	Firmware is programming that is inserted into programmable read-only memory (programmable ROM), thus becoming a permanent part of a computing device. Firmware is created and tested like software (using microcode simulation). When ready, it can be distributed like other software and, using a special user interface, installed in the programmable read-only memory by the user. Firmware is sometimes distributed for printers, modems, and other computer devices.
fish	protocole FISH	It's a protocol that stands for FIles transferred over SHell and its original implementation was developed by Pavel Machek for the Midnight Commander file manager. The KDE project incorporated into their Konqueror file manager/web browser with the advent of version 3.1.
fix	réparer	GroupWise Mailbox/Library Maintenance operation.
fixed memory limit	limite de mémoire fixe	One of two eDirectory 8.6 default cache settings for controlling cache memory consumption, the other one being Dynamically Adjusting Limit (see this term). The fixed memory limit is the method that earlier versions of eDirectory use to regulate memory consumption. It can be set as a fixed number of bytes, a percentage of physical memory, or a percentage of available physical memory.
flag	drapeau	In the NetWare file system, any of the characteristics assigned to directories and files that dictate what can be done with the directories or files. Attribute is the preferred term.
flash memory	mémoire flash	A type of computer memory that can be erased and reprogrammed in blocks rather than bytes. Most modern computers have the BIOS stored in flash memory.
flat cleaner	gestionnaire d'attributs (flat cleaner)	A process that updates the status and version attributes of the master replica of NCP Server objects
flat file	fichier plat	A computer file where all the information is run together in a single character string.
Floating Keypad	bloc de touches flottant	A toolbar where a user can enter characters as if from a keyboard.
flood, to	disséminer	to disseminate a link state advertisement. When a new advertisement is flooded throughout the OSPF domain, it is disseminated along the adjacencies. Because all routers are interconnected by adjacencies, they have a chance to receive the new advertisement.
flooding	dissémination	In OSPF, the process of disseminating a link state advertisement. When a new advertisement is flooded throughout the OSPF domain, it is disseminated along the adjacencies. Because all routers are interconnected by adjacencies, they have a chance to receive the new advertisement.
floppy disk	disquette	An inexpensive, polyester-based, low-capacity removable memory disk.
floppy drive	unité de disquette	Short for floppy disk drive (FDD), a disk drive that can read and write to floppy disks.
flow analysis	analyse de flux	A method of tracing the movement of different types of information through a computer system, especially with regard to security and the controls applied to ensure the integrity of the information.
flush out	vider	To copy data from a temporary storage area such as RAM to a more permanent storage medium such as a disk.
Fluxbox	Fluxbox	Fluxbox is a minimalist window manager based on Blackbox, which is, in turn, is another minimalist window manager.
folder	dossier	A component used to represent GroupWise items stored in user's mailbox in GroupWise Client interface. Folders are used to - Store and organize incoming and outgoing items such as appointments, reminder notes, tasks, document references, and mail or phone messages in your mailbox. - Group all items related to a particular task together. - Store unfinished items (Work In Progress folder). - Share information with others.
folder	dossier	A place where applications and files can be stored. The same as "directory." The terms "folder" and "directory" are used interchangeably.
font	police	
force cache	forcer le caching	In ZENworks for Desktops, an administrator-definable action that results in a distributed application's source files (and other files required for installation) being automatically copied to the workstation's nalcache directory. With a user-associated application, the application is cached immediately after Novell Application Launcher starts. With a workstation-associated application, the application is cached immediately after the workstation starts up (initial startup or reboot).
Force Run	forcer l'exécution	In ZENworks for Desktops, an administrator-definable action that results in a distributed application being run without user intervention. With a user-associated application, the application is run immediately after Novell Application Launcher starts. With a workstation-associated application, the application is run immediately after the workstation starts up (initial startup or reboot).
forced logout	logout forcé	The administrative option to log a user out of a server containing files due to be synchronized, before the synchronization occurs, thus ensuring that all relevant files are available for synchronization. This option can be set to force users to close the files that would otherwise be affected.
forced repair	réparation forcée	The manually-invoked process of rebuilding databases on a master or replica server if Novell Replication Services has not detected an error or corruption, but the server is still having problems. Usually NRS will prompt for repair.
foreground	premier plan	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), the content of a window and the color or shading used to distinguish it from the window's background.
foreign domain	domaine étranger	A third-party e-mail system. A foreign domain does not physically exist on a GroupWise system; it simply represents the other system for addressing and routing purposes. Compare with external domain.
form factor	facteur de forme	The physical size of a device as measured by outside dimensions
format	format	
forward	faire suivre	In GroupWise Client, an option/button to send received items and document references to other users.
forward proxy	proxy de réacheminement	A forward proxy is an intermediate system that enables a browser to connect to a remote network to which it normally does not have access. A forward proxy can also be used to cache data, reducing load on the networks between the forward proxy and the remote webserver.
forward reference	référence en aval	When an entry is going to be created before its parent exists, a placeholder called a forward reference is created for the entry's parent to allow the entry to be successfully created. If a later operation creates the parent, the forward reference is changed into a normal entry.
forwarding	réacheminement	The process of sending a frame to its destination.
FOSS	logiciel libre (FOSS, Free and Open Source Software)	Stands for Free and Open Source Software.
fractional replica	réplique fractionnaire	In eDirectory, a virtual replica that holds a subset of data (instead of replicating the entire data set). More particularly, it contains only the object attibutes you specify. Compare with sparse replica.
fragmentation	fragmentation	The process in which a packet is broken into smaller pieces to fit the size requirements of the physical network it is transmitted across.
frame	trame	1. In asynchronous serial communications, a unit of transmission that is sometimes measured in elapsed time and begins with the start bit that precedes a character and ends with the last stop bit that follows the character.  2. In synchronous communications, a package of information transmitted as a single unit.
frame relay	relais de trame	A form of packet switching that relies on high quality phone lines to minimize errors. It does error checking but no correcting in the network. The end devices, like LAN servers and clients, make corrections when necessary. When a traditional protocol like SDLC (Synchronous Data Link Control) is adapted to frame relay by a Frame Relay Access Device (FRAD), the FRAD will correct errors. Frame Relay is very good at efficiently handling high-speed, bursty data over wide area networks. It offers lower costs and higher performance for those applications in contrast to the traditional point-to-point services (leased lines).
frame type	type de trame	A set of standards that specifies the function and communications of the data link layer in networks. Frame types determine how packets of network data are formatted on different LANs. Ethernet, token ring, ARCnet, and other LANs use different formats. The TCP/IP and IPX protocols also require different frame types in some instances.
free cache page	page de cache disponible	A page which used to contain information that has now been transferred to cache memory, thus setting the page free.
free clean page	page libre disponible	A page in which no information is presently stored.
free dirty page	page modifiée disponible	A page that has been freed up by a program but still has the oldest information in it.
free software	logiciel gratuit	As defined by the Free Software Foundation, free software is software that comes with permission for anyone to use, copy, and distribute, either verbatim or with modifications, either gratis or for a fee. In particular, this means that the source code must be very close, but not identical, to the notion of Open Source software.
Free Software Foundation (FSF)	FSF (Free Software Foundation)	An organisation which main objective is to create and disseminate free software.
free space	espace disponible	Short for "storage free space." In NSS, a block of unassigned partition space on a hard disk or free space in a NetWare volume that has not been claimed by either the traditional NetWare file system or by Novell Storage Services (NSS).
free-floating	flottant	Able to float freely.
French Commercial Code	Code de commerce français	The French Commercial Code, together with the French Civil Code, set out the current applicable French statutory provisions for Corporate Law in a codified form.
frequency	fréquence	
frequent contacts	contacts fréquents	One of GroupWise Client predefined address books. In the Windows version of the GroupWise client, user's most frequently or most recently used addresses are automatically added to the Frequent Contacts address book. In GroupWise WebAccess, user must manually add addresses to this book. Frequent Contacts also keeps track of the date and time of the last communication and the number of times you have communicated with a user.
front end	interface client	
FTP	FTP	File Transfer Protocol. A part of the TCP/IP suite of control procedures for downloading files from a remote host computer to a local computer.
fulfillment agent	agent d'exécution	In MLA licensing program, Fulfillment Agents are approved to provide MLA sales to the customer for all purchases made under the MLA. A Fulfillment Agent is a reseller tied directly into the MLA contract.
full backup	sauvegarde complète	In NetWare, a type of backup that requires all data on the network to be backed up at the end of each day on a separate tape for each day.
full context	contexte complet	See "name context."
full distinguished name	nom distinctif complet	A Distinguished Name that includes the leading period. The leading period means that NDS will resolve the name from the Root, regardless of the object's current context. An example of a printer's Fully Distinguished Name would be: .lpIII.marketing.VerySmallCompany. Also referred to as "full distinguished name"
full distinguished name	nom distinctif complet	
full duplex	duplex total	Refers to the transmission of data in two directions simultaneously. For example, a telephone is a full-duplex device because both parties can talk at once. In contrast, a walkie-talkie is a half-duplex device because only one party can transmit at a time.  Most modems have a switch that lets you choose between full-duplex and half-duplex modes. The choice depends on which communications program you are running.   In full-duplex mode, data you transmit does not appear on your screen until it has been received and sent back by the other party. This enables you to validate that the data has been accurately transmitted. If your display screen shows two of each character, it probably means that your modem is set to half-duplex mode when it should be in full-duplex mode.
full scan	analyse complète	The complete inventory scan of the workstation. A full scan is performed when scanning the workstation for the first time. During the full scan, the scanner collects the complete inventory. Compare with "delta scan"
Full Term Upgrade Protection	Protection de Mise à Jour pour une Période Contractuelle Entière	An offer that guarantees customer will receive any future releases of a product during the term of your protection.
fully qualified host name	nom d'hôte complet	The complete domain name for a specific computer (host) on the Internet. It provides enough information so that it can be converted into a physical IP address. It consists of host name and domain name.
fully typed name	nom complet avec type	The object name that includes the name type of each object when identifying the distinguished name of that object. Name type qualifiers that apply to fully typed names are: CN = Common Name OU = Organizational Unit O = Organization L = Locality ST = State C = Country. Examples of fully typed names are: Server .CN=beta.acme.com.OU=security.O=acme.L=Denver.ST=Colorado.C=US Web Server  .CN=www.acme.com.OU=security.O=acme.L=Denver.ST=Colorado.C=US  Organizational CA  .CN=PKI Corporate CA.O=The PKI Company
function signature	signature de fonction	A sequence of data used to identify functions.
Functional Acknowledgement	accusé de réception fonctionnel	A message or transaction set transmitted by the receiver of an EDI transaction to the sender, indicating receipt and syntactical acceptability of data transmitted according to an EDI standard. The functional acknowledgement allows the receiving party to report back to the sending party problems encountered by the syntax analyzer as the data are interpreted. It is not intended to serve as an acknowledgement of data content.
functional administrator	administrateur des attributs	An NDS administrator role with specific attribute creation rights for maintaining users, passwords, or groups
Functional Group Wrap	enveloppe du groupe fonctionnel	One of the five distinct areas of which a transmission consists. A functional Group is a collection of electronic document information for the same business application.
gadget	gadget	The main building block of the portal page, gadgets represent a "window" to specific content on a page or "scheme" in the portal. A gadget can display anything it wants within its "window".   2. A dialog control that presents application output in some form and provides a way for an application to receive administrator input.
gateway	passerelle	A software module that allows NDPS clients to send jobs to printers that are not NDPS aware, and to access printers and print systems that require jobs to be placed in queues. NDPS supports third-party gateways, which are developed by printer manufacturers to support printers directly attached to the network, and the Novell gateway, which consists of a Print Device Subsystem and a Port Handler component and supports local and remote printers, including those using NPRINTER or QMS.
gateway	passerelle	A hardware and software combination that runs on the OSI application layer and allows dissimilar protocols to communicate by filtering communications through industry-standard protocols. Examples of protocols a gateway might use are TCP/IP, X.25, and SNA.
gateway	passerelle	In GroupWise, a gateway provides - Communication with other email systems - Internet messaging - Remote access to user mailboxes
gateway up time	temps de fonctionnement de la passerelle	Statistics for the gateway. The amount of time (in days, hours, minutes, and seconds) since the HP Gateway was loaded.
general rules of membership	principes généraux d'adhésion (à un programme)	The body of regulations prescribed by Novell for the particular program members.
gettext	gettext	A complete toolset for translating messages output by C programs". More than just an application, gettext is a philosophy and a translation environment.
GID	GID	GID:  Group ID. The number used to identify a specific user group.
GIMP	GIMP	(GNU Image Manipulation Program) – A popular image editor/paint program for Linux.
GINA	GINA	Graphical Identification and Authentication. The interface that users see when they attempt to log in to the network. The GINA can originate from the Microsoft client, the Novell ClientTM, or the ZENworks for Desktops Management Agent (both use a version of NWGINA).
given name	prénom	This is the user's first name. ConsoleOne will fill in this field if a Given Name was entered on the Identification page.
global configuration value	valeur de configuration globale	In Identity Manager, a setting similar to driver parameter, which lets you set a constant value that you can reference in a policy.
Global Unique Identifier	identificateur unique global	GUID. In Novell ZENworks for Desktops and Novell ZENworks for Handhelds, a randomly generated string that provides a unique identifier for an application. When Novell Application LauncherTM distributes an application to a workstation, it adds the GUID to the workstation's Windows registry for distribution tracking purposes.
glossary	glossaire	A list of often difficult or specialized words with their definitions, often placed at the back of a book.
GNOME	GNOME	A freedesktop environment for UNIX and UNIX-like operating systems. One of the two leading desktop environments for Linux (the other one is KDE). GNOME stands for GNU Network Object Model Environment. The only part of this name that really matters is GNU, which is there to indicate that GNOME is a part of the larger GNU project.
GNU	GNU	GNU's Not UNIX.   A project to develop a complete UNIX-like operating system which is free software. Combination of tools and utilities produced by GNU project with Linux kernel is widely known under the name 'Linux operating system'
Gold Partner	partenaire Gold	From PartnerNet program. It refers to a partnership level where partners are entitled to Novell benefits but not obliged to take part in sales partnerships with Novell.
Good Title	Détention incontestée des droits de propriété	Ownership of real property which is totally free of claims against it and therefore can be sold, transferred or put up as security.
go-to partner	Go-To Partner	solutions channel partner.
Go-to-Market Kit	kit de solutions commerciales	Go to market refers to everything required to build a business, or go to the marketplace wih the product, service, solution.
government solution	solution pour le gouvernement	A solution destined for government agencies.
GPL	GPL	GNU  or General Public License. A software license which allows expressly for the software to be copied and modified.  Developed by the Free Software Foundation. In short, it allows anyone to use, copy, distribute, or sell the software, in original or modified form, as long as you distribute the program's source code along with the binaries. GPL plays an extremely important role in the free software movement.  Almost all of GNU project software, as well as Linux kernel, is distributed  under GPL.
Grab	saisir	To capture graphical image data from a video camera or another full-motion video source and put it into memory.
grace limit	nombre de login bonus	In NetWare, login grace limit specifies the total number of times an old password can be used (after the old password has expired) to access the account.
grace login	login bonus	A login that can be performed during the period between notifying a user to change passwords and disabling the user's account if the password has not been changed.  The user login with an expired password. In NetWare, number of user's grace logins is stored in the Login Grace Limit property of the User object.
grace period	période bonus	In NetWare, a period in which an expired password may still be changed by the user without administrator intervention.
Graft GroupWise Objects Advisor	assistant de greffe d'objets GroupWise	An advisor that helps to create GroupWise objects in eDirectory based on information from the GroupWise domain database.  By default, the Graft GroupWise Objects Advisor maps standard GroupWise user fields to standard eDirectory User object properties.
grant	accorder	
grant	accorder	To confer access and/or management privileges to a trustee. The trustee represents the user receiving the privileges, while the target represents the network resource the user can access or manage.
Green screen	ordinateur de type "interpréteur de commandes"	A computer terminal that displays green characters on a dark background. Widely used with mainframes and minicomputer systems, the green screen has mostly given way to the Windows, Mac or Motif graphical user interface.
Grep	Grep	(Global Regular Expression and Print) – A tool that searches files for a string of text and outputs any line that contains the pattern.
GroupWise Administrator	Administrateur GroupWise	In GroupWise 6, the GroupWise Administrator snap-in files extend the functionality of ConsoleOne to let you administer GroupWise.
GroupWise installation	installation de GroupWise	GroupWise installation is a process when install does the following: ensures that NDS is extended to work with GroupWise; updates ConsoleOne; installs GroupWise Administrator files for ConsoleOne; sets up the GroupWise software distribution directory; runs ConsoleOne with the Setup Advisor.
GroupWise Installation Advisor	assistant d'installation de GroupWise	The Installation Advisor installs the GroupWise software.
GroupWise Internet Agent	agent Internet de GroupWise	A component of GroupWise which lets users send and receive e-mail through the Internet.
GroupWise Internet Browser Mail Integration	Intégration de GroupWise comme messagerie par défaut du navigateur	A GroupWise Client feature which sets GroupWise to be the default email program on the workstation, so that whenever the user clicks an email link on a web page or chooses the Mail command in the browser, GroupWise Client starts.
GroupWise Message Transfer Agent	agent de transfert de messages GroupWise	MTA. GroupWise Agent that routes messages between post offices (if there is more than one post office in the domain) and between domains (if there is more than one domain in the system).
GroupWise Monitor	GroupWise Monitor	A monitoring and management tool that allows administrator to monitor GroupWise agents and gateways from any location with Internet connection and access to a Web browser. Some agent administration can also be performed from your Web browser.
GroupWise Monitor Provider	fournisseur GroupWise Monitor	The service provider that fills the requests of GroupWise Monitor Web Console and returns the required information to the Monitor application. The Monitor service provider communicates with the Monitor agent to fill Monitor Web Console requests.  It provides the hook to the GroupWise system from the Monitor application. By default, only one GroupWise Monitor Provider should be listed.
GroupWise NLM agent	agent NLM GroupWise	A GroupWise agent that runs on NetWare server.
GroupWise Notify	GroupWise Notify	A program that works with GroupWise to alert you when you have new items placed in your Mailbox, when your outgoing items are opened, or when you have an upcoming appointment. It is installed in the same folder as GroupWise when you run GroupWise Setup. Notify runs minimized in the background while you run other programs.
GroupWise NT/2000 agent	agents NT/2000 GroupWise	A GroupWise agent that runs on Windows NT 4.0/2000 server or workstation.
GroupWise Remote	GroupWise Remote	GroupWise Client mode that allows users to access their Mailboxes from a computer that is not directly connected to your network.
GroupWise restore area directory	répertoire de restauration GroupWise*	In GroupWise system, a directory that has been designated as restore area for post office.
GroupWise Setup Advisor	assistant de configuration de GroupWise	An advisor that helps administrator create and configure GroupWise system.
GroupWise Smart Caching	GroupWise Smart Caching	In GroupWise, a caching mode that enables you to work from your hard drive without maintaining a constant connection to the GroupWise server.
GroupWise system	système GroupWise	GroupWise system is made up of the following components: - Administration components: GroupWise system name, GroupWise domain(s), GroupWise post office(s), GroupWise gateway(s) - Post office components: eDirectory user(s) with GroupWise account(s), External entities, and additional post office components - Agents: MTA and POA
GroupWise system administrator	administrateur système de GroupWise	A person that is assigned to be to be an administrator of GroupWise system.
GroupWise Tip of the Day	Astuce du jour GroupWise	In the GroupWise Client, a component that presents user with a GroupWise tip of the day each time user starts the client.
GroupWise View	Vue GroupWise	An administrative view in ConsoleOne (in GroupWise 6) which filters out all non-GroupWise objects and shows how GroupWise objects relate to each other.
GroupWise View Designer	Éditeur de vues GroupWise	A GroupWise tool that lets you create custom views. You can create calendar views that include the features you use most, such as an Appointments list, In Box, or Out Box. You can also create personal or group views that include your company logo, graphics, movies, buttons, pop-up lists, check boxes, and a customized Message box.
GroupWise WebAccess	GroupWise WebAccess	GroupWise WebAccess enables access to GroupWise Mailboxes through Web browsers on computers or WAP-enabled wireless devices (telephones, PDAs, and so forth).
GroupWise WebPublisher	GroupWise WebPublisher	An optional extension to GroupWise WebAccess. GroupWise WebPublisher lets GroupWise users publish documents from a GroupWise library to the Web.
GroupWise WebPublisher Provider	fournisseur GroupWise WebPublisher	A GroupWise WebAccess component that provides the hook to the GroupWise system from the web server WebPublisher application.
GroupWise wireless	GroupWise Wireless	A GroupWise component used to provide access to GroupWise Mailbox from the WAP wireless phone.
Gtk	Gtk	A collection of tools for creating screen widgets such as scrollbars, menus, checkbuttons, etc. in applications. GTK is used by all GNOME applications.
gtranslator	gtranslator	GNU open-source application developed for editing .po files.
Guardian database	base de données gardienne	GroupWise database that consists of "metadata," meaning information about all GroupWise databases. A "database of databases" like this enables fast access and reduces duplication of GroupWise data. The guardian database also serves as a registry of other databases in the post office.
GUEST	GUEST	A user name created automatically when you install NetWare 3.x. By default, GUEST has no password and only limited rights. The purpose of GUEST is to allow a user without a registered user name to log in to the network.?
GUID	GUID	Global Unique Identifier. In Novell ZENworks for Desktops and Novell ZENworks for Handhelds, a randomly generated string that provides a unique identifier for an application. When Novell Application LauncherTM distributes an application to a workstation, it adds the GUID to the workstation's Windows registry for distribution tracking purposes.
Gzip (aka GNU zip)	Gzip (ou GNU zip)	The original file compression program for UNIX/Linux. Recent versions produce files with a .gz extension. (A .z or .Z extension indicates an older version of Gzip.) Compression is used to compact files to save storage space and reduce transfer time. (When combined with Tar, the resulting file extensions may be .tgz, .tar.gz or .tar.Z.)
half duplex	semi-duplex	a.k.a. HDX -Capability for data transmission in only one direction at a time between a sending station and a receiving station. BSC is an example of a half-duplex protocol. See also BSC. Compare with full duplex and simplex.
handheld client	client de périphérique de poche	In ZENworks for Handhelds, the component that is installed on each managed BlackBerry, Palm OS, and Windows CE handheld device in the system. The handheld client distributes software and content to handheld devices, collects software and hardware inventory for each device, and enforces policies.
handheld device	périphérique de poche	Any one of several electronic devices that essentially fit in your hand and are mobile. These include a palmtop, a pager, a cell phone, and a PDA. "Handheld" is the most recent name for PDAs, which are converging with cell phone technology to become all-around communication devices.
Handheld Import policy	règle d'importation des périphériques de poche	In ZENworks for Handhelds, a policy to enable handheld import and configuration settings, such as how handheld device objects are named, where they are stored in eDirectory, and which Handheld Group objects you want certain handheld device objects associated with. The Handheld Import policy is part of the Handheld Service Package.
handle	poignée	An on-screen marker, usually a small black square, that enables a user to size and manipulate an object or item in a drawing. Handles appear at the corners and sides of selected objects.
handle	identificateur	A pointer used by a computer to identify a resource or feature. For example, a directory handle identifies a volume and a directory, such as sys:public.
handler	gestionnaire	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), the distinguished recipient procid of a ToolTalk request. This procid must complete the indicated operation.
handshake method	méthode de reconnaissance mutuelle	The method to exchange signals between two data communications systems prior to and during data transmission to coordinate and control each phase of transmission over a serial connection.
hard disk	disque dur	A high-capacity storage medium consisting of a stack of magnetic disks that hold information in concentric areas called cylinders. This device can be network or local.
hard limit	limite stricte	The exact amount of system memory to be used for the cache.
hard link	lien physique	A link that allows a file to be linked to a different  filename in any other directory on the same file system. A hard link is another name for a file, and is therefore no different in content than the original name. The actual content of the file is maintained in only one place, in the original file. For example, you can link the file /tmp/fred to /usr/tmp/test. The file can now be referred to by either name. You can delete the original name or any link name but the contents of the file are not removed until the final name is deleted. Compare with soft link and symbolic link.
hard stop policy	règle d'arrêt absolu	A policy type in  license certificate object, which informs users that they are out of compliance with the terms and conditions of the license agreement. As a result, it prevents users from accessing a license unit. The hard stop policy implementation could result from all available license units already being used. Compare with "soft stop policy" and "no stop policy".
hardware liberation	libération des contraintes matérielles	Describes the fact that your files do not depend on hardware anymore, i.e. on a specific workstation, but that they are available to you wherever YOU are at any given moment.
hardware virtual server	serveur virtuel matériel	Hardware virtual servers allow you to map multiple IP addresses to multiple document roots. For example, if you have two IP addresses, you could map thefirst IP address to one document root and the second IP address to a second document root.
hash algorithm	algorithme de hachage	The algorithm that calculates a file's address both in cache memory and on the hard disk and predicts the address on a hash table.
hash bucket	compartiment de hachage	A notional receptacle, a set of which might be used to apportion data items for sorting or lookup purposes. When you look up a name in the phone book (for example), you typically hash it by extracting its first letter; the hash buckets are the alphabetically ordered letter sections. (Source: The Jargon Dictionary)
header	en-tête	A part of a message. The message header contains addressing information including the sender’s address, receiver’s address, message priority, status level, and a pointer that links the header to the body.
header	en-tête	The information at the beginning of a packet that defines control parameters such as size, memory requirements, and entry point of a program, as well as the locations in the program of absolute segment address references.
header compression	compression d'en-tête	A set of standard compression options intended to eliminate nonessential information from the frame format, including address and control compression, protocol ID (PID) compression, and data compression. Header compression also maximizes the bandwidth available from public switched telephone network (PSTN) connections.
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)	loi fédérale HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act)	US Act of Law. Bracket translation.
health monitor	moniteur d'état de santé	Server components can be monitored separately, so there can be more than one "health monitor" on the server-- each watching a different sub-system.  One might be tracking the LAN traffic on the server, and another might be monitoring the CPU utilization, for example.
heartbeat	pulsation	Heartbeat ensures that Directory objects are consistent among all replicas of a partition. This means that any server with a copy of a partition must communicate with the other servers to check the consistency. This process runs by default once every 30 minutes on every server that contains a replica of a partition
help desk	service d'assistance	A center providing a service to internal or external callers to facilitate the use of their technology assets. In a business enterprise, a help desk is a place that a user of information technology can call to get help with a problem.
Help Desk policy	règle du service d'assistance	In ZENworks for Desktops, a policy that sets the choices viewed in the Help Desk user interface. The policy is part of the User package.
Help mode	mode Help (aide)	In ZENworks for Desktops, an imaging mode that displays information about the img command at the Linux* bash prompt.
Helper	WS Helper	NAL Workstation Helper. In ZENworks for Desktops, the user workstation software that plugs in to Workstation Manager and enables workstation-associated applications to be installed, uninstalled, cached, and run. This allows for application management based on the workstation rather than a user logged in to the workstation.
high availability messaging	système de messagerie haute disponibilité	A messaging solution that features high availability of a messaging system that is continuously operational for a desirably long length of time. Availability can be measured relative to "100% operational" or "never failing." A widely-held but difficult-to-achieve standard of availability for a system or product is known as "five 9s" (99.999 percent) availability.
high priority	priorité élevée	A priority of a message. High priority messages are delivered before standard and low priority messages.
Higher User Productivity	productivité accrue des utilisateur	Type of production by a user.
highlight	mettre en surbrillance	To make an object on a display screen stand out by displaying it in a different mode from other objects. Typical highlighted objects include menu options, command buttons, and selected blocks of text.
history	historique	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), usually a list of most recently accessed files, directories, or commands.
history log	journal de l'historique	In GroupWise 6.0, a Monitor log file containing dumps of all MIB variable values gathered during each poll cycle.
hit	occurrence	Either a temporary change in the phase or amplitude of a signal that can create distortion and cause errirs, or the successful return of an item that meets a specified search criteria.
hold	mettre en attente	To retain.
holding queue	file d'attente des messages en attente	A queue located in the domain directory where MTA keeps the messages for the closed facility.
home directory	Répertoire privé	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), a directory where you keep personal files and additional directories. By default, the File Manager and Terminal Emulator windows are set to the home directory when you first open them. A network directory that the network administrator can create for a user. The user should keep personal files in this directory.
home directory	répertoire privé	A network directory that the network administrator can create for a user. The user should keep personal files in this directory.
home page	page d'accueil	The first page on a World Wide Web site, to which supporting pages are linked.
homogeneous environment	environnement homogène	A computing milieu, usually within an organization, in which only one manufacturer's hardware and one manufacturer's software are used.
hook	point d'insertion	In programming, a hook is a place and usually an interface provided in packaged code that allows a programmer to insert customized programming. For example, a programmer might want to provide code that analyzed how often a particular logic path was taken within a program. Or a progammer might want to insert an additional capability. Typically, hooks are provided for a stated purpose and are documented for the programmer. Some writers use hook to also mean the program that gets inserted. (Source: whatis.com)
hop	saut	A measure of distance in routers on a network. The number of hops to a destination network is the number of routers that must be traversed to reach the network. The number of hops is part of each network entry in a Routing Information Packet (RIP).
hop count	nombre de sauts	The routing metric used to measure the distance between a source and a destination. Each hop count equals the transmission of a packet across a router.
host	hôte	A computer that acts as a source of information or signals. The term can refer to almost any kind of computer, from a centralized mainframe that is a host to its terminals, to a server that is host to its clients, to a desktop PC that is host to its peripherals. In network architectures, a client station (user's machine) is also considered a host, because it is a source of information to the network in contrast to a device such as a router or switch that directs traffic.
host	hôte	On the Internet, the term "host" means any computer that has full two-way access to other computers on the Internet. A host has a specific "local or host number" that, together with the network number, forms its unique IP address.  If you use Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) to get access to your access provider, you have a unique IP Address for the duration of any connection you make to the Internet and your computer is a host for that period. In this context, a "host" is a node in a network.  The term generally means a device or program that provides services to some smaller or less capable device or program.
host adapter	adaptateur hôte	A board in a host server that controls the storage device.
host adapter bus	bus de l'adaptateur hôte	
host adapter module	module HAM	HAM  A driver component used to drive specific host adapter hardware in the NetWare Peripheral Architecture (NPA). This component is part of the host adapter interface (HAI), which is standard for tape drives.
host bus adapter	adaptateur HBA	HBA  A SCSI adapter board or disk controller that adds a bus through which peripheral devices (such as hard disks, tape drives, and CD-ROM drives) are connected to the computer. These devices typically have embedded controllers.
host server	serveur hôte	A NetWare server with a host adapter and storage device, such as a tape drive, attached. Also, the NetWare server where the backup program resides.
Host Software	logiciel hôte	Host Software means the software programs provided as part of the software that are designed to operate on a single computing device, providing access to the shared resources attached to that computer.
hostgroup/host group	groupe hôte	In NFS Services for NetWare/Native File Access Pack for Unix, a group of hosts, which can include hosts, hostgroups, IP addresses, and DNS domains.
hostname/host name	nom d'hôte	In NFS Services for NetWare/Native File Access Pack for Unix, the hostname of a host.
hot backup	sauvegarde à chaud	A backup that is run when the database is up and running and users at work.
Hot Fix	Hot Fix	A method NetWare uses to ensure that data is stored safely. Data blocks are redirected from faulty blocks on the server disk to a small portion of disk space set aside as the Hot Fix Redirection Area. This is a Novell trademark.
hot fix redirection area	zone de réacheminement dynamique (Hot Fix)	In NetWare, the space on a hard disk set aside for redirection of data from faulty disk blocks detected by Hot Fix feature.
hot key	touche directe	A one- or two-keystroke command that is programmed to perform a specific function other than its usual value, such as starting or changing to another application.
hot spot	zone sensible	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), the place on the pointer that determines the exact spot on the screen where an action is performed.  In the OSF/Motif Style Guide, the actual position on the pointer that identifies the element to which input associated with the pointer is directed.
hot spot	zone sensible	An icon or part of a larger image used as a hyperlink to another document or file. When the hot spot is selected by clicking on it, the linked material is searched and displayed. In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), the place on the pointer that determines the exact spot on the screen where an action is performed.  In the OSF/Motif Style Guide, the actual position on the pointer that identifies the element to which input associated with the pointer is directed.
HotFix	zone de réacheminement dynamique (Hot Fix)	Microsoft's term for a bug fix, which is accomplished by replacing one or more existing files (typically DLLs) in the operating system or application with revised versions.
HotPlug support module	module de support HotPlug	
HotSync	HotSync	Palm HotSync*. In ZENworks for Handhelds, third-party synchronization software that transfers data between the ZENworks for Handhelds server and a Palm OS handheld device.
housekeeping	gestion interne	Any of various routines, such as updating the clock or performing garbage collection, designed to keep the system, the environment within which a program runs, or the data structures within a program in good working order.
how to buy	guide d'achat	A link on novell.com web pages that refers to how to buy information.
HOWTO	HOWTO	Linux documentation describing a specific proceedure or details of a specific aspect of the system.
HR rep.	Représentant des Ressources Humaines	Human resources representative.
HTML-over-HTTP	HTML via HTTP	HTML transmitted via HTTP protocol.
HTTP	HTTP	Hypertext Transfer Protocol. The language that Web browsers and servers use to communicate with each other. HTTP can handle multiple application protocols that allow users access to many Internet protocols. It also supports multimedia functions
HTTP	HTTP	Hypertext Transfer Protocol. The protocol that Web servers and Web browsers use to communicate with each other on the World Wide Web (WWW). Web browsers submit HTTP requests; Web servers use HTTP to respond with the requested document. Relative to the TCP/IP suite of protocols (which are the basis for information exchange on the Internet), HTTP is an application protocol.
HTTP request	requête HTTP	A request made over HTTP protocol.
hub	hub	A device that modifies transmission signals, allowing the network to be lengthened or expanded with additional workstations. Two kinds of hubs exist:   ? Active hubs amplify transmission signals in network topologies. Active hubs are used to add workstations to a network or to extend the cable distance between stations and the server.   ? Passive hubs are used in certain network topologies to split a transmission signal, allowing additional workstations to be added. Passive hubs can't amplify the signal, so network cables must run directly to a station or to an active hub.
hub and spoke architecture	architecture en étoile de type "hub and spoke"	A network architecture whose topology is in the shape of hub and spoke.
I/O	E/S	Abbreviation for input/output.
identity aggregation	regroupement des identités	Combining the various privileges a user has in one identity profile.
identity management	gestion de l'identité	A solution that allows individuals and businesses easily conduct transactions while protecting the privacy and security of vital identity information.
identity ownership	propriété des identités	Still owning one's identity characteristics, even when placed on other web sites. The web site provider is not supposed to disclose the identity details to third parties but to keep them secret. However, it is not always possible to verify and enforce this rule.
identity server	serveur d'identités	The server which runs NDS within a digitalme architecture. The identity server always host NDS.
identity-based access control	contrôle de l'accès basé sur l'identité	Controlling the users' utilization of the network, the software etc. based on their identities, which are comprised of special, unique details.
iFolder Professional Edition	iFolder Professional Edition	Novell iFolder Professional Edition lets your mobile professionals access their local files from any computer that has the iFolder client installed and an active Internet connection. Professional Edition includes all the features of iFolder Standard Edition, plus additional features.
image	créer une image	To image a workstation is to create an image (or a copy) of a workstation with the view to laying it down (or pasting it) on another workstation (or multiple workstations).
image	image	A section of random access memory (RAM) or an entire storage medium that has been copied to another memory or storage location. For example, an image of a hard drive as an exact copy of the hard drive's contents, i.e., including all data and configuration settings.
image	image	An exact (bit-by-bit) copy of the contents of a device, such as a hard disk, floppy disk or CD-ROM.
image file	fichier image	The file holding the image of a storage medium.
image-safe data	données permanentes d'image	In ZENworks for Desktops, an area on a computer's hard disk that is protected from reimaging. Used to save workstation-unique information such as the IP address, computer name, and DNS settings so the information can be restored after an imaging operation. also referred to as "ZENworks image-safe data" or "ZISD"
imaging	création d'image	In ZENworks for Desktops, the process of copying the contents of a computer's hard disk into a single compressed file (referred to as an image) so that the contents of the hard disk, including configuration information and applications, can be copied to other computers. Also called disk imaging or ghost imaging.
imaging agent	agent de création d'image	The imaging agent is an extension to the Windows bootup procedure on a workstation. It runs before any network communications are established. It enables you to make an existing Windows workstation safe for reimaging, and also enables you to automatically assign a network identity to a brand new workstation.
Imaging Boot Disk Creator	créateur de disquette de démarrage du composant Images	In ZENworks for Desktops, a utility (zimgboot.exe) used to create or update imaging boot diskettes.
imaging client	client de création d'image	A computer that is booted from an imaging device.
Imaging Engine	moteur de création d'image	In ZENworks for Desktops, a Linux application used to control imaging through the img command at the Linux bash prompt.
imaging server	serveur de création d'image	The imaging server is a software component of the Zen for Desktops server. It enables imaging clients to connect to the network to receive imaging services, including storage or retrieval of an image on a server, automatic imaging based on an NDS policy or setting, and logging of the results of an imaging operation.
import	importer	To retrieve information from one program into another, or to convert information so that it can be read in a platform or application that it was not originally created for.
importance threshold	seuil d'importance	A threshold that determines to which level something is important.
in use	en cours d'utilisation	The In-Use flag protects against data loss by preventing users from opening the same document concurrently. The In-Use flag is set to Yes when a document is opened and is reset to No when the document is closed. If a document is open when a system failure occurs, the flag might still remain set to Yes and must be reset to No before it can be opened again.
In Value	valeur d'entrée	A value used as input. Also, input value.
inbound	entrant	In GroupWise, an incoming direction of message file traffic or GroupWise agents communication.
inbound connection	connexion entrante	A connection established in response to inbound request.
include file	fichier d'inclusion	A file on the server's file system which contains a list of semi-colon-separated files to be included in the backup.
included directory	répertoire inclus	A directory within the replication set whose content, including any subdirectories and their contents, are replicated to the replica server and synchronized when scheduled (or synchronized manually). An included directory is shown in the Replication panel as a folder icon containing a plus (+) symbol.
incoming	entrant	A category of GroupWise items. Other categories are outgoing items, personal items, and draft items.
incoming item	élément entrant	One of GroupWise item categories. The other categories are outgoing items, personal items, and draft items.
incomplete	non effectué	In GroupWise, designating a task which has not yet been completed.
incremental backup	sauvegarde incrémentielle	A backup type that backs up selected files that have been changed, but if a file has been changed for the second or subsequent time since the last full backup, the file doesn't replace the already-backed-up file, rather it is appended to the backup medium. This is used when each revision of a file must be maintained.
incremental file changes	modification incrémentielle des fichiers	a way to send efficient 1K packets to determine which files need updating. Then, only those changes inside the files are sent.
Independent Computing Architecture	protocole ICA (Independant Computing Architecture)	ICA. A Citrix Systems protocol for running Windows applications over the Internet. In ZENworks for Desktops, the ICA protocol is used with DeFrame to enable delivery of thin-client applications to user workstations.
Independent Hardware Vendor (IHV)	constructeur indépendant de matériel (IHV, Independent Hardware Vendor)	A company that manufactures hardware related to computers such as accessories or components, but not complete systems.
Independent Software Vendor (ISV)	éditeur de logiciels (ISV, Independent Software Vendor)	An ISV (independent software vendor) makes and sells software products that run on one or more computer hardware or operating system platforms.
index	index	1. A list of keywords that direct you to the location of more comprehensive information. 2. A key or a group of keys that Btrieve uses to sort a file. A structure in a Btrieve file that contains the key values for a specific key.
indirect link	liaison indirecte	A link from one GroupWise domain to another though through one or more intermediate domains.
indirection	indirection	A discovery operation which allows the Novell eDirectory full-service directory to establish a relationship between a user and physical assignments on the network. These assignments can include the location of a file or specific access rights. Objects utilizing indirection include groups, organization roles, file mappings, and application objects.
industry-leading	premier de l'industrie	First or foremost in the industry.
Information at-a-Glance	vue d'ensemble	A heading on novell.com web pages.
Information mode	mode Information	In ZENworks for Desktops, an imaging mode that allows administrators to view information about the hardware devices on the computer, the base image on the computer, and the data stored in the computer's image-safe area.
Infringement	Violation des droits de tiers	Violation of Intellectual property rights.
inheritable area	zone héritable	Displays portal content that is assigned to or inherited from the object schemes associated with the user in the directory. The Inheritable Area is contained within the Branding Scheme.
inherited right	droit hérité	In the NetWare file system, rights acquired automatically by files, folders or directories. When a file or directory is copied to a NetWare server, that file or directory inherits the same rights as the directory in which it is placed. In NDS, explicitly granted rights to one object that apply to all subordinate objects, unless other rights are explicitly assigned at a lower level or the rights are blocked by an inherited rights filter (IRF).
initialize	initialiser	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), to set a variable or application to some initial state.
inline	insérer automatiquement	From 'Inlining', which in Java programming is the process of taking the code for a called method and inserting its instructions into the caller’s method.
inlining	insertion automatique	In Java programming, inlining is the process of taking the code for a called method and inserting its instructions into the caller’s method.
in-memory DOM	DOM en mémoire	DOM (Document Object Model) that resides within memory.
in-place upgrade	mise à niveau directe (in-place)	A method of upgrading from one NetWare version to the next.  During an in-place upgrade, the operating system CD of the new NetWare version is used to install the new version on top of the existing version of NetWare on the server. The upgrade is performed "in-place".
input	entrée	Communication to the computer. Input includes anything typed on the keyboard, retrieved from a disk, or received over a modem.
input DOM	DOM en entrée	A DOM (Document Object Model) used as input.
Input identifier	identificateur d'entrée	An identifier of an input.
input media	support d'entrée	
input tray	bac d'alimentation	An optional tray that holds up to 2,000 sheets of paper and automatically senses paper sizes.
install cache	cache d'installation	In ZENworks for Desktops, a NAL cache subdirectory that contains the application source files needed by Novell Application Launcher to install or verify an application while in disconnected mode.
install media	support d'installation	Directory %s was not found on the install media!!!
Installation Advisor	assistant d'installation	In GroupWise, the Installation Advisor installs the GroupWise software.
Installation Guide	Guide d'installation	The Installation Guide provides the following information:
instant messaging account	compte de messagerie instantanée	An account of instant messaging service. Instant messaging service is a computer conference using the keyboard (a keyboard chat) over the Internet between two or more people. It requires that both parties be online at the same time.
instrumented system	système instrumenté	Instrumented System means a computer (e.g. workstation, thin-client, server or otherwise) where one or more applications are generating or sending (but not receiving) log data.
Intellectual Property Indemnification	Indemnisation pour atteinte à la propriété intellectuelle	Indemnity paid to property owners as a compensation for losses due to infringement of property rights.
intellectual property rights	droits relatifs à la propriété intellectuelle	A generic phrase encompassing intangible property rights, including, among others, patents, trade and service marks, copyrights, industrial designs, rights in semiconductor chip layout designs, and rights in trade secrets.
Interchange Control Wrap	enveloppe du contrôle d'interchange	One of the five distinct areas of which a transmission consists.
interface	interface	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), in Application Builder, the graphical user interface (GUI) created by dragging and dropping objects from the primary window; also called "user interface."
interface	interface	1. The point of communication between a computer and an external entity, whether an operator, a peripheral device, or a communication medium. An interface may connect physically to hardware or logically to software.  2. Point at which a connection is made between two elements so that they can work together.  3. A protocol that lets computer devices communicate by matching the output of one to the input of another. A user interface lets people give commands to the computer, and includes operating systems and programs, whether graphical or character-based.
interface group	groupe d'interfaces	A set of specified interfaces. An interface group allows protocols to request an X.25 or PPP circuit through any one interface from within the group, without having to specify which interface.
interface language	langue d'interface	A language that is used for UI items display.
intermediate domain	domaine intermédiaire	A domain (or domains) through which two domains with an indirect link communicate.
intermediate server	serveur intermédiaire	The Intermediate Server is a staging server for moving the data from the lower-level servers up the server hierarchy. It does not have inventoried workstations or inventoried servers attached to it and does not have an Inventory database.
Intermediate Server with Database	serveur intermédiaire avec base de données	In ZENworks for Desktops and ZENworks for Servers, a staging server for moving the data from the lower-level servers up the server hierarchy. It does not have inventoried workstations or inventoried servers attached to it but does have an Inventory database.
internal net(work) number	numéro réseau interne	A "logical" network number that identifies the individual file server
international date line	ligne de changement de date	An imaginary line through the Pacific Ocean roughly corresponding to 180° longitude, to the east of which, by international agreement, the calendar date is one day earlier than to the west.
Internet	Internet	The biggest internet in the world. Unlike online services, which are centrally controlled, the Internet is decentralized by design.
Internet addressing	adressage Internet	Internet Addressing provides GroupWise system with an Internet address format and the ability to associate one or more Internet domain names to a GroupWise system.
Internet Agent	agent Internet	A component of GroupWise which lets users send and receive e-mail through the Internet.
Internet based on demand sessions	sessions Internet sur demande	Internet based on demand sessions
Internet domain	domaine Internet	The Internet domain name (IDomain) feature labels the GroupWise system with an Internet domain name.
Internet Messaging and Calendaring	Messagerie Internet et gestion d'agenda	A NetWare service that promotes productive collaboration and easily scale to match your organization's growth.
Internet messaging solution	solution de messagerie Internet	Novell's cross-platform Internet messaging solution that now operates on Windows NT*/2000 is a standards-based messaging solution that provides e-mail, calendaring and schedule sharing across the Internet.
internet printing	impression Internet	Printing content from a mobile computer via the internet.
Internet Service Provider	fournisseur de services Internet	ISP. A company which provides Internet access or Internet accounts to individuals, businesses, and other groups.
internetworking	interconnexion réseau	1. Communication between two networks or two types of networks or end equipment. This may or may not involve a difference in signaling or protocol elements supported. And, in the narrower sense -- to join local area networks together. This way users can get access to other files, databases and applications. Bridges and routers are the devices which typically accomplish the task of joining LANs. Internetworking may be done with cables -- joining LANs together in the same building, for example. Or it may be done with telecommunications circuits -- joining LANs together across the globe.
internetworking configuration utility (INETCFG)	utilitaire de configuration de l'interconnexion réseau	(INETCFG) A menu-based NetWare Loadable Module (NLM) that simplifies the use of Novell internetworking products by allowing a network administrator to configure interface boards and network protocols. A network administrator uses INETCFG to bind protocols to different LAN and WAN boards, and also to view the entire or selected portions of the configuration.
interrupt	interruption	An asynchronous operating system condition that disrupts normal execution and transfers control to an interrupt handler. Interrupts can be issued by both software and hardware devices requiring service from the processor. When software issues an interrupt, it calls an interrupt service routine (ISR). When hardware issues an interrupt, it signals its interrupt request (IRQ) line.   Different tasks require different interrupt types, such as device I/O interrupts for LAN and disk drivers, hardware platform-specific interrupts that are local to a processor, interprocessor interrupts generated by one processor to affect another processor, and timer interrupts that provide timer services for the OS as well as preemption support.
interrupt	interrompre	A signal that gets the attention of the CPU and is usually generated when I/O is required.
intranet	intranet	A network of networks that interconnects within a single widespread organization and uses the Internet Protocol (IP). The sites within an Intranet are generally closed to the Internet and are accessible to organization members only.
intruder	intrus	An unauthorized user who has accessed, or is attempting to access, a computer system.
intruder lockout	verrouillage en cas d'intrusion	When password restrictions are violated, the network locks a user account.
inventoried workstation	poste de travail inventorié	In ZENworks for Desktops, the workstation for which hardware and software inventory is being gathered and maintained.
inventory	inventaire	In the ZENworks product family, hardware and software data collected from user workstations, handheld devices, and network servers.
Inventory Agent	agent d'inventaire	In ZENworks for Servers, the software installed on NetWare and Windows inventoried servers. It interfaces with the ZENworks for Servers Policy and Distribution services to read the Server Inventory policy available at the Subscriber. The Subscriber engine enforcers the Inventory Agent on the basis of a schedule configured in the Server Inventory Policy.The Inventory Scanner executes with the policy options in the Server Inventory Policy.
inventory database	base de données d'inventaire	In ZENworks for Desktops and ZENworks for Servers, a repository of hardware and software inventory information collected from inventoried workstations and inventoried servers.
inventory database schema	schéma de la base de données d'inventaire	In ZENworks for Desktops and ZENworks for Servers, a relational database schema that is used to represent hardware and software information collected from workstations and servers. The inventory database schema is based on the CIM schema.
inventory report	rapport d'inventaire	In the ZENworks product family, a generated report listing the hardware and software installed on user workstations, handheld devices, or network servers.
inventory scanner	scanner d'inventaire	In ZENworks for Desktops and ZENworks for Servers, a platform-dependent executable that gathers the hardware and software information of workstations or servers and stores the information as .str files on an Inventory server.
inventory server	serveur d'inventaire	In ZENworks for Desktops and ZENworks for Servers, the server that collects scan data from a group of inventoried servers or inventoried workstations and stores it in the Inventory database.
Inventory Service Manager	gestionnaire des services d'inventaire	In ZENworks for Desktops and ZENworks for Servers, a utility that manages other Inventory services running on the Inventory server based on the configuration properties specified in the server properties file.
Inventory Service object	objet Service d'inventaire	In ZENworks for Desktops and ZENworks for Servers, the eDirectory object that contains the server attributes defining the role of the server, address, and scan directory location.
inventory site	site d'inventaire	In ZENworks for Desktops and ZENworks for Servers, a network environment consisting of inventoried workstations or inventoried servers and at least one Inventory server.
inventory tree	arborescence d'inventaire	In ZENworks for Desktops and ZENworks for Servers, a logical tree depicting the transmission of the inventory information from the inventoried workstations or inventoried servers and the Inventory servers to the centralized enterprise Inventory database.
IO request	requête E/S	A request of the transfer of data into a computer, and from the computer to the outside world.
IP address	adresse IP	An IP address is a 32-bit number that identifies each sender or receiver of information that is sent in packet across the Internet. Consisting of network and node portions, the address is represented in standard decimal notation (for example, 123.45.6.7).
IP scope	étendue IP	In ZENworks for Servers (previously in ManageWise), a part of IP network; the scope defines boundaries for NetExplorer's network topology discovery.
IPP	IPP	Internet Printing Protocol
IPP	IPP (Internet Printing Protocol)	Internet protocol printing - feature that allows users to print via the internet without having to download drivers etc.
iPrint	iPrint	A net printing solution. The main focus of iPrint is to help organizations realize the unimpaired benefits of printing on the Net by unleashing the power of IPP (Internet Printing Protocol and Web technologies.
iPrint Client	client iPrint	iPrint lets mobile employees, business partners, and customers access printers from a variety of remote locations using existing Internet connections. Whether users are located in an office building, telecommuting from home, or attending a sales meeting in another country, iPrint ensures that they can print documents quickly, easily, and reliably.
IPX	IPX	Internetwork Packet Exchange. A protocol that allows the exchange of packets on an internetwork.
IPX traffic routing	Routage du trafic IPX	Flow of very specific types of IPX (Internetwork Packet Exchange) traffic.
IS/IT	IS/IT	Stands for Information System/Information Technology.
ISP	ISP	See "Internet Service Provider."
IT	IT	Stands for Information Technology.
IT consultant	consultant en informatique	An expert who is called in to advise a business or other organization about the information technologies (IT).
IT infrastructure	infrastructure informatique	The physical hardware used to interconnect computers and users. Infrastructure includes the transmission media, including telephone lines, cable television lines, and satellites and antennas, and also the routers, aggregators, repeaters, and other devices that control transmission paths. Infrastructure also includes the software used to send, receive, and manage the signals that are transmitted.
item	élément	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), an element in a list or menu.
item	élément	In GroupWise, items include email, appointments, documents, reminder notes, phone messages, and tasks.
item list	liste d'éléments	An area of the GroupWise client. Item list is displayed on the right side of the client window. User clicks a folder to display the contents of the folder in the Item List.
Item Properties	propriétés de l'élément	Item Properties lets user check the status of any sent or received item. For sent items, user can check when an item was delivered and when the recipient opened or deleted the item. For received items, user can see who else received the item (except for blind copy recipients), the size and creation date of attached files, and more.
Item record	enregistrement d'élément	A record that is associated with the GroupWise item.
item type	type d'élément	In GroupWise Client, item types include mail, appointment, task, reminder note, and phone message.
item view	vue d'élément	A view associated with the item type.
janitor	nettoyeur (janitor)	A process that runs after a replica synchronisation cycle has completed succesfully. It purges deleted entries and values that have been synchronized with all replicas. It also checks any entry that has been renamed, moved, or deleted.
Java class library	bibliothèque de classes Java	
Java constructor	constructeur Java	A constructor of an object used in Java language.
Java extensions	extensions Java	Extended features enabled by Java.
Java servlet engine	moteur de servlet Java	The Monitor application requires the Web server to have a Java servlet engine.
Java Virtual Machine	machine virtuelle Java	A Java interpreter. The Java Virtual Machine (JVM) is software that converts the Java intermediate language (bytecode) into machine language and executes it. The original JVM came from the JavaSoft division of Sun. Subsequently, other vendors developed their own; for example, the Microsoft Virtual Machine is Microsoft's Java interpreter. A JVM is incorporated into a Web browser in order to execute Java applets. A JVM is also installed in a Web server to execute server-side Java programs. A JVM can also be installed in a client machine to run stand-alone Java applications
jiffy	jiffy	Basic packet of kernel time, around 10ms on x86. Related to HZ, the basic resolution of the operating system. The timer interrupt is raised each 10ms, which then performs some h/w timer related operations, and marks a couple of bh's ready to run if applicable.  Jiffies are used for various timing functions within the kernel. (Source: Linux Kernel Glossary)
job	travail	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), a potentially queued task in Print Manager that is to be performed by a system.
job sheet	page de travail	In NDPS, a sheet on which the print job has been printed, is being printed or will be printed.
Journaling	journalisation	Same as “logging.” Writing information to a journal (log) file as a method of tracking changes.
junction	répertoire de jonction	In Distributed File Services (DFS), a virtual directory or folder that is assigned a pseude filename within a file system. The junction contains information that redirects file requests to a file system located at the root of another NetWare volume. When 
junctioning	jonction de volumes	A DFS (Distributed File System) process that provides access to remote volumes. This process allows volumes to be joined together so that they appear as subdirectories in one file system regardless of their physical location. See also "junction" for more details.
junk address list	liste de courrier indésirable	GroupWise feature permitting the user to indicate which individual Internet addresses will have their mail delivered to the user's junk mail folder. The junk address list is a sub-list of the junk list.
junk list	liste de courrier indésirable	GroupWise feature permitting the user to indicate which individual e-mail addresses or entire Internet domains will have their mail delivered to the user's junk mail folder.
junk mail	courrier indésirable	Unsolicited e-mail from companies or people.
junk mail folder	dossier de courrier indésirable	A GroupWise folder in which all e-mail items from addresses and Internet domains are placed that have been identified by the system as junk mail.
just-in-time	Just-in-Time	Provided immediately only in necessary amount.
KDE	KDE	A desktop environment for UNIX and UNIX-like operating systems.  One of two leading desktop environments for Linux (the other one is GNOME).
kernel	kernel	The core of a network operating system. The kernel provides fundamental operating system services, such as handling interrupts and the I/O system, managing threads and processes, and allocating and scheduling processor resources.  The NetWare 5 multiprocessing kernel (MPK) is integrated to run on both multiprocessor and uniprocessor systems; it is completely multithreaded, and it provides support for preemptible applications.
Kernel	kernel	The core of the Linux operating system, upon which all other components rely. The kernel manages such tasks as low-level hardware interaction and the sharing of resources, including memory allocation, input/output, security, and user access.
kernel	kernel	The essential part of Unix or other operating systems, responsible for resource allocation, low-level hardware interfaces, security etc.
key buffer	tampon de clé	A Btrieve function parameter that usually contains the value of a key identified by the key number parameter.
key encipherment	codage de clés	Option under the Public Key Usage Property Page. A check mark in this check box indicates that the public key is used for key transport; for example, when an RSA key is to be used exclusively for key management.
Key Performance Indicators	indicateurs principaux de performances	An executive dashboard that provides a consolidated view of an organization's performance.
keystore	keystore	A database file used  to store key/value pairs
keystroke	frappe de touche	The pressing of a key.
kill	détruire	To stop or abort a process in a program or operating system.
killer switch	paramètre destructeur	A type of switch that is usually used as a last resort because of its destructive nature
knowledgeable user login	login utilisateur averti	A mobile user configuration option set up for mobile users who know their complete name and context so they can manually enter their distinguished name when logging in.
language identification number	numéro d'identification de langue	LIN  A number assigned to non-English versions of NetWare Loadable Modules (NLMs) as a means of identification.
language variables	variables de langue	A new feature introduced in ZENworks 6.5 to let you easily deploy the same application object in multiple languages for different users. The use of langauge variables which detect the language of the operating system of the client workstation enable you to deploy the appropriate language version of the application.
Laptop	ordinateur portable	Portable device
launch	lancer	To load a program and start it.
launch cache	cache de lancement	In ZENworks for Desktops, a nalcache subdirectory that contains the Novell eDirectoryTM information needed by Novell Application LauncherTM to start an application. The launch cache also contains the information needed to uninstall the application.
launch screen	écran de lancement	A screen displayed at launch time.
lawful use	utilisation légale	The conditions under which you can use material that is copyrighted by someone else.
lay down	placer	To lay down an image is to paste a computer's image onto another computer (or to multiple computers).
layer	couche	A group of related capabilities or services that build upon each other in an operating, communications, or networking environment. Through a communications process of well-defined interfaces, each layer provides services to the layer above it and uses services if the layers below it. Layers communicate across machines by using a predefined protocol, such as Transmission-Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP). However, the communication takes place only at the lowest-level layer on each machine, and then is spread upward to the appropriate layers. Each layer expects to receive certain services from the layer beneath it, and provides certain services to the layer above it.
layout	disposition	In the Common Desktop Environment's Application Builder, the physical positioning (absolute and relative) of objects in the user interface.
LDAP	LDAP	Lightweight Directory Access Protocol. An X.500-related Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) protocol that clients can use to read and write Directory information. LDAP is used to publish Directory information such as telephone numbers and e-mail addresses. The Directory features available to LDAP clients are dependent upon the features built into the LDAP server and the LDAP client; some clients have the ability to read and write data, others can only read Directory data.
LDAP	LDAP	Protocol name.
LDAP object	objets LDAP	The data structure used to store information in an LDAP directory.
LDAP pooling	mutualisation LDAP	LDAP pooling allows users to authenticate from a pool of LDAP servers.
LDAP trace	trace LDAP	The process of tracking Lightweight Directory Access Protocol - LDAP - A protocol used to access a directory listing. LDAP support is being implemented in Web browsers and e-mail programs, which can query an LDAP-compliant directory. The LDAP trace is the record of the data that has been transmitted or received via LDAP.
LDP (Linux Documentation Project)	projet de documentation Linux (LDP, Linux Documentation Project)	A volunteer group developing and managing Linux documentation.
lead story	article à la une	A news story of major importance.
leaf name-only directory	répertoire feuille à réplication nominale	A directory that is excluded from replication or synchronization, but whose name appears in the directory structure. It appears either on the same level in the directory structure as an included directory, or on the same level as a directory that contains an included directory. It never contains included items itself.
leaf object	objet Feuille	An NDS object, located at the end of a branch in the NDS tree, that doesn't contain any other objects. Examples include User, Group, and NetWare Server objects.
leaf server	serveur feuille	In ZENworks for Desktops and Novell ZENworks for Servers, an Inventory server that has inventoried workstations or inventoried servers attached to it for scanning. It rolls up the scan data to the next higher-level inventory server. It is the lowest-level inventory server in the inventory tree hierarchy.
lease	bail	In DHCP, a process of IP address assignment to the client.
legacy application	application héritée	In information technology, legacy applications and data are those that have been inherited from languages, platforms, and techniques earlier than current technology. (Source: search390.com)
Legal Notices	Mentions légales	Information on respect to the contents or use of documentation and software.
library	bibliothèque	In GroupWise, a database where documents, versions, and their properties are stored. Documents in a library are compressed and encrypted. There can be multiple libraries in a GroupWise post office.
license	licence	Official or legal permission to do or own a specified thing.
license agreement	accord de licence	A legal statement which indicates the terms under which a user may make use of a software product. The license to use does not transfer ownership. In many cases the license is worded so that installation or use of the product indicates agreement to the terms stated.
license certificate	certificat de licence	License certificates correspond to the printed license statement that is typically included in the packaging for software products. In NDS, license certificate is represented by the license certificate object. In Novell Licensing Services, license certificates can be secure (license certificates) or unsecure (metered certificates).
license certificate object	objet Certificat de licence	An NDS leaf object used with Novell Licensing Services (NLS) technology to represent product license certificates. License Certificate objects are added to the License container object when an NLS-aware application is installed.
license container	conteneur de licences	In Novell Licensing Services, an object in NDS; contains one or more License Certificate objects. A License Container object is a special container object in NDS. License Container objects are named using publisher, product, and version.
License Conversion Worksheet	Formulaire de Conversion de Licences	It lists all the products Novell sells on a Node License.
license envelope	enveloppe de licence	In Novell Licensing Services, a file that contains one or more license certificates. See also "Envelope."
license grant	octroi de licence	The act of granting the Novell product license. For example, Novell ZENworks for Desktops 3.0 and later has included a license grant for eDirectory on any platform -- a one-to-one license match or 250,000 users; whichever is greater.
license object	objet Licence	A container object created automatically when applications enabled for Novell Licensing Services (NLS) technology are installed, or when a license certificate is created.
License Restrictions	Limitations de l'Accord de Licence	All rights reserved to Novell not expressly granted to you.
Licensed drivers	pilotes sous licence	The drivers that are included in the software that is licensed to you.
licensed to use	détenteur d'une licence d'utilisation	The right to enjoy the benefits of real property or personal property provided under the license agreement.
licensee	licencié	A person given a license by the government or under private agreement.
licensing catalog	catalogue de licences	A Licensing Catalog is an object in an NDS tree. This object walks the NDS tree to discover License container objects found in the tree.
lifecycle management	administration du cycle de vie	Managing a device throughout its "useful life," i.e., during the time this device is utilized.
lights-out distribution	distribution hors ligne	A ZENworks for Desktops application distribution method which installs common pieces of an installation outside regular office hours. Then, when a user logs in, user-specific pieces are put in place.
lights-out distribution	distribution nocturne	In ZENworks for Desktops, the scheduling of an application distribution so that it occurs at nonpeak times or at a time prior to when a user will need the application.
Lights-out management (LOM)	gestion à distance (LOM, Lights-out Management)	Function by which a system administrator can monitor and manage servers by remote control. A complete LOM system consists of a hardware component called the LOM module and a program for continuous monitoring of variables such as microprocessor temperature and utilization. The program also allows for such remote operations as rebooting, shutdown, troubleshooting, alarm setting, fan-speed control, and operating system reinstallation.
lights-out workstation authentication	authentification hors ligne d'un poste de travail	An authentication method that allows a workstation to authenticate to a Windows network and receive policy files when the time for the group policy execution arrives, even if the user is not logged in.
LILO	LILO	(LInux LOader) – A not file system specific partition boot manager utility, capable of booting to operating systems other than Linux.
limber	contrôleur de connectivité (limber)	Limber (or the limber process) ensures that the replica pointer table is updated when a server name or address is changed. When a server is booted, the limber process compares the server's name and IPX address with those stored in the replica pointer table. If either are different, NDS automatically updates all replica pointer tables that contain a listing of that server. The limber process also checks that the tree name is correct for each server in a replica ring.
limited warranty	garantie limitée	A warranty with certain conditions and limitations on the parts covered, type of damage covered, and/or time period for which the agreement is good.
line-of-business application	application commerciale	A line-of-business (LOB) application is one of the set of critical computer applications that are vital to running an enterprise, such as ccounting, supply chain management, and resource planning applications.
link	lien	A software connection between two files or objects. A change in one is reflected by a change in the other.
link	lien	A hypertext link on the Web
link	liaison	The line connection and the link stations joining the network or peer nodes
Link State advertisement	annonce d'état de liaison	In link state routing, information about a router's directly connected links and their costs which is distributed in special packets called Link State Packets (LSPs).
link support layer	couche de support de liaison	LSL  An implementation of the Open Data-Link Interface (ODI) specification that serves as an intermediary between the NetWare server or router LAN drivers and communication protocols, such as IPX, AFP, or TCP/IP, and AppleTalk.
Linux	Linux	Linux (pronounced "lynn-ucks" or "lee-nucks") derives its name from a combination of "Unix" and "Linus" - for Linus Torvalds, the Finnish programmer who first wrote it and envisioned it as a free plaything for hobbyists and hackers.  A free (as in GNU GPL) UNIX-like operating system, written in  collaboration by hundreds of developers all around the world, most of them volunteers. One of the most successful and famous  free software projects. Strictly speaking, the name 'Linux' only applies to the kernel of the operating system. Most of other tools and utilities necessary for system functioning came from GNU project, so the operating system should be properly called 'GNU/Linux.'
Linux Client Environment	environnement du client Linux	Environment that will handle collaboration, devices, wireless, thin clients, authentication, all tied to the Linux server.
Linux Desktop Product Council	comité produit Linux Desktop	Novell strategic partners actively engaged in piloting the next generation of Linux-based desktop.
Linux desktop stack	pile Novell Desktop	A collection of objects laid on top of each other and presented in the desktop.
Linux distribution	distribution Linux	An operating system based around the Linux kernel.  Linux distributions are available in many combinations of components. Many are meant to be installed and be used by professionals on public Internet servers or on graphics rendering farms and other environments. Others are meant to be installed by the general public as an alternative to proprietary operating systems. Each distribution reflects either the needs of its target market, in the case of the commercial distributions or the wishes of its developers, as is the case with distributions created by individuals or non-profit organizations. (Source: Linux glossary at www.linux.org)
list	liste	An ordered set of data items.
list	lister	To display data in an ordered format.
listener port	port d'écoute	Channel through which data is received.
live chat	conversation en direct	Online, typed "conversation" in real time.
load	charge	To make a software program available in memory so that it can be executed. In NetWare, to link to the NetWare operating system. For example, NLM programs can be loaded while NetWare is running.
load	charger	To make a software program available in memory so that it can be executed. In NetWare, to link to the NetWare operating system. For example, NLM programs can be loaded while NetWare is running.
load balancing	équilibrage de la charge	A scheme for distributing network traffic among parallel paths. Load balancing provides redundancy while using the available bandwidth efficiently.
load balancing service	service d'équilibrage de la charge	In ZENworks for Desktops, one of the services provided by the ZENworks Thin-Client Application Service (ZENTCAS service) running on a DeFrame terminal server. The ZENTCAS load balancing service enables a thin-client application to be launched from the least-utilized terminal server.
load protected	protégé contre le chargement	NLMs are normally loaded into Ring0, or the main, central part of memory that is also used by the Operating System kernel.  The danger in this is that it's possible for a module to damage the kernel by using memory improperly, or overwriting memory that is being used or reserved for another module.  To prevent this from happening, in NetWare a module (or set of modules) can be loaded into a separate, isolated, "protected" section of memory, sometimes called "Ring3" or a "user address space."  If a failure occurs in a protected address space, only that part of memory will be shut down; the rest of the server will continue to run.
load sharing	partage de la charge	The ability of two or more remote bridges or routers to share their traffic load in a parallel configuration. If one bridge or router fails, traffic is routed to the next parallel bridge or router.
local area network	réseau local	LAN   A network located within a small area or common environment, such as in a building or a building complex.
local customization	personnalisation au niveau local	Adapting a product etc. to local conditions, e.g., language, currency, style.
local drive	unité locale	A storage device that is physically contained in or attached to a workstation.
local host	hôte local	The host on the network which you are currently using.
local Novell office	bureau Novell local	The center of Novell operations within a specific region.
local password	mot de passe local	A password to access the workstation or computer.
local password	mot de passe local	The Windows operating system requires a username and password to log in to the computer. This password, called the local password, is stored locally on the computer's disk drive.
local semaphore	sémaphore local	A signal between NLM applications that controls resources, synchronizes thread execution, and queues threads.
Locality	Lieu	One of the five types of container objects that can be created and added to the Directory tree. Locality designates the location of this portion of the network.
locate	localiser	To determine or specify the position.
location	emplacement	A eDirectory Schema term and a selectable property for the User object in Novell eDirectory.
Locator object	objet Localisateur	A DNS/DHCP object that contains global defaults, DHCP options, and lists of all DNS and DHCP servers, subnets, and zones in the eDirectory tree.
lock	verrou	A process that makes a file or other piece of data inaccessible. File locking is a critical component of all multi-user computer systems, including local-area networks. When users share files, the operating system must ensure that two or more users do not attempt to modify the same file simultaneously. It does this by locking the file as soon as the first user opens it. All subsequent users may read the file, but they cannot write to it until the first user is finished.  In addition to file locking, many database management systems support record locking, in which a single record, rather than an entire file, is locked. This enables different users to access different records within the same file without interfering with one another.
Lock Manager	gestionnaire de verrous	Software that provides file and record locking for multiple computer systems or processors that share a single database.
locksmith	locksmith	A user with comprehensive access privileges.  The Locksmith user has complete access to all Director application and subsystem objects, regardless of specified access to the individual objects.
log	journal	Same as log file. A file that lists actions that have occurred.
log file	fichier journal	A file that lists actions that have occurred.
log file age	âge du fichier journal	The number of days you want to save the log file before it is deleted.
log in	se loguer	
log level	niveau de consignation	In GroupWise agents, a parameter that determines the amount of data displayed on the message portion of the console screen and written to the log file.
log maintenance settings	paramètres de maintenance du journal	In GroupWise agents, Maximum Log File Age and Maximum Log Disk Space settings.
log off	se déloguer	The terms logout and logoff (or log out and log off) are used synonymously; however there some differences in usage. In general, logoff (or log off) is more likely to be used when discussing mainframe environments.
log out	se déloguer	1. To relinquish a session and sign off a computer system or online information service by entering a terminating command.  2. In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), to terminate or end access to a system or desktop session.
Log Priority Level	niveau de priorité de la consignation	A level that each log action has as its priority (importance).
log settings	paramètres de consignation	In GroupWise agents and gateways, settings that determine how and where logging occur and other logging related parameters.
logging level	niveau de consignation	In GroupWise agents, a parameter that determines the amount of data displayed on the message portion of the console screen and written to the log file.
logic	logique	In programming, the assertions, assumptions, and operations that define what a given program does.
logical partition	partition logique	A part of a NetWare physical partition, measured from the beginning of a data area to the end of that same data area.
login	login	The process of gaining access to a system.
Login	Login	In addition with ZENworks for Desktops roaming profiles, users can select, at login, the environment they want based on where they are and how they are connecting.
login credentials	références de login	In ZENworks for Desktops, the username and password entered by the user in the login GINA of the Novell ClientTM or the ZENworks for Desktops Management Agent.
login directory	annuaire de login	a directory designated as the login (authentication) server.
login directory	répertoire de login	The SYS:LOGIN directory, created during network installation that contains the LOGIN and NLIST utilities. Users can use these utilities to log in and view a list of available NetWare servers.
login restriction	restriction de login	A limitation on a user account that controls access to the network. Examples of login restrictions include password requirements, account limits, disk space limits, number of connections, and time restrictions. When a user violates login restrictions, NetWare disables the account and no one can log in using that username.
login script	script de login	A list of commands that are executed when a user logs in to the network. The commands are typically used to establish connections to network resources. A login script is a property of a container, Profile, Template, or User object. If a login script is defined for each of these objects (except the Template), when a user logs in, all associated login scripts will execute.  Note: The Template script establishes the Login Script property when a new User object is created. As soon as the administrator tailors the script for that particular User object, the Template script no longer executes.
login script macro	macro de script de login	In ZENworks for Desktops, Novell Client login script variables that can be used in Application object properties.
login sequence	séquence de login	An ordered set of one or more login or post-login methods
logon connection	connexion de login	The Logon Connection is a special type of resource that contains all the information needed to define a connection pool.
logout	logout	In NetWare, a procedure that breaks a network connection and deletes drives mapped to the network.  This procedure can terminate a connection to a single NetWare server or all connections to all NetWare servers.
logout URL	URL de logout	The URL or web page users are directed to when they log out from a web site/application.
loopback packet	paquet en boucle	A test packet sent by a network adapter with a destination address equal to the adapter's own hardware address. The purpose of this test is typically to establish that the adapter is connected to a network that is functional enough to support a data transmission. (Source: WildPackets Glossary)
loose consistency	cohérence partielle	The concept that replicas are not consistent with each other at any given time; rather, their information converges over time. In other words, as long as the database is being updated, the NDS database is not guaranteed to be completely synchronized at any instance in time. However, during periods in which the database is not updated, it will completely synchronize.
Lower TCO	coût d'investissement réduit ; TCO réduit	A reduced total cost of ownership.
lumber	vérification du nom d'arborescence (processus Lumber)	A DSTRACE subprocess which checks the tree name, after the limber process verifies the server name and IPX address
Lynx	Lynx	A popular non-graphical (text-based) Web browser.
machine	machine	Any electronic or electromechanical unit of equipment. A machine is always hardware; however, "engine" refers to hardware or software.
magazine	magasin	
magneto-optical array	dispositif magnéto-optique	High-capacity removable data appliance on T-Rex Data Management Appliance.
mail file	fichier de messagerie	A file that can contain multiple mail messages
mail message	message	One of GroupWise item types used for basic correspondence, such as a memorandum or letter.
mail receipt	accusé de réception	In GroupWise Client, one of two ways to notify the sender when a message is opened or deleted.
mail server	serveur de messagerie	
mail server identification	identification du serveur de messagerie	An identification of a mail server.
mailbox	boîte aux lettres	A storage area where e-mail is placed. Each GroupWise user has a mailbox. When the user receives e-mail or created personal or draft item, the mail system automatically puts it in the mailbox.
mailbox id	ID de boîte aux lettres	A unique name that allows an object's mailbox to be located in the Messaging Database.
Mailbox Statistics	statistiques des boîtes aux lettres	An administrative option. Mailbox Statistics collects and displays statistics about the post office, such as the number of messages and appointments in the post office and the average number per user.
mailbox storage	capacité de stockage de la boîte aux lettres	In GroupWise, the disk space reserved for the mailbox.
Mailbox/Library Maintenance	maintenance de la boîte aux lettres/bibliothèque	A GroupWise maintenance tool/option used to maintain message store databases such as message and user databases and document management databases.
Mailbox/Library program	programme de maintenance de la boîte aux lettres/bibliothèque	A GroupWise maintenance program used to maintain message store databases such as message and user databases and document management databases.
mainframe system	gros système	A large computer. In the "ancient" mid-1960s, all computers were called mainframes, since the term referred to the main CPU cabinet. Today, it refers to a large computer system.
maintenance	maintenance	Software, or program, maintenance is the updating of application programs in order to meet changing information requirements, such as adding new functions and changing data formats. It also includes fixing bugs and adapting the software to new hardware devices.
maintenance phase	phase de maintenance	In Novell Support Life Cycle, the second of four phases a product goes through, the other ones being Shipping, Mature, and Discontinued. A product enters the Maintenance phase at the end of its Shipping phase. Full support is still offered in the areas of product planning, design, implementation and management, but defect support is limited to critical defects only. New patches will be released only to resolve critical defects.
Make Locally mode	mode Make Locally (créer localement)	In Novell ZENworks for Desktops, an imaging mode that takes an image of the computer and stores it in a partition on a local drive.
Make mode	mode Make (créer)	In ZENworks for Desktops, an imaging mode that takes an image of the computer and stores it in a specified location, either locally or on a proxy server.
Make on Proxy mode	mode Make on Proxy (créer sur proxy)	In ZENworks for Desktops, an imaging mode that takes an image of the computer and stores it on an imaging server.
man	commande man	The UNIX/Linux command for reading online manual pages.
man page	page du manuel	A text file that provides information about a specific command. Also called "manual page"
man pages	pages du manuel	Online documentation for UNIX commands and programs and the UNIX library routines available for use in C programs. These documents, also found in the UNIX Programmer's Manual, can be displayed on a user's terminal or printed using the command man.
manage right	droit de gestion	In GroupWise document management, an access right that allows a user to perform certain functions such as copy, move, and delete on any document within a library, and to modify a documents properties or sharing rights.
managed diversity	gestion de la diversité	Describes the possibility of using computers with diverse OS and still manage them centrally.
managed workstation	poste de travail géré	1. In ZENworks for Desktops, a remote workstation that the administrator can manage. The administrator can do such things as assume control of the workstation, download or execute files, and diagnose problems on the workstation. 2. In ZENworks for Desktops, a Windows workstation, that has the ZENworks for Desktops Remote Management Agent installed in order to use remote control, remote viewing, diagnostics, FTP, remote execute and remote audit.
management console	console de gestion	In ZENworks for Desktops and ZENworks for Servers, a Windows workstation or server running Novell ConsoleOne® with the ZENworks snap-ins installed. It provides the interface to manage and administer the inventory system, Remote Management system, and Management and Monitoring services.
management information base	base d'informations de gestion	MIB, a database of network management information about the configuration and status of nodes on a TCP/IP-based internetwork. MIB is used by the Common Management Information Protocol CMIP and the Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP.
manager	gestionnaire	An NDS category for a user who has rights to manage other objects. To manage an object, a user must have the Write right to the Object Trustees (ACL) property.
Mandrake	Mandrake	Mandrake is a French RPM based distribution. It is often compared to SuSE when it comes to usability and localization. Mandrake goes to great length helping the user.
manual feed	alimentation manuelle	
manual page	page du manuel	A documentation resource commonly provided with UNIX programs. Manual pages typically contain concise technical listings of available command line options and other settings which affect the running of the program. Can be viewed using GNOME Help Browser.
manual synchronization	synchronisation manuelle	Synchronization that is explicitly initiated by the administrator to take place immediately.
Manual Task Service Driver	pilote de service de tâches manuelles	A DirXML driver designed to notify one or more users that a data event has occurred and in some cases that action is required on the users’ part. In an employee provisioning scenario, the data event might be the creation of a new User object and the user action might include assigning a room number by entering data into Novell® eDirectory™ or by entering data in an application. Other scenarios include notifying an administrator that a new user object has been created, notifying an administrator that a user has changed data on an object, etc.
map	assigner	For DOS and OS/2 clients, to assign a drive letter to a directory path on a volume.  Example: If you map drive F: to the directory SYS:ACCTS/RECEIVE, you access that directory every time you change to drive F:.
Map action	opération d'assignation	An action that handles a DOM-node input/output mapping. It transfers (and optionally, transforms) data from one document context to another document context.
mapping	assignation	The assignment of a drive letter to a particular logical disk drive.
mark	marquer	mark completed mark private mark official version mark read mark unread
mark as private	marquer Privé	In the GroupWise mailbox system, an option/action that marks the selected GroupWise item (mail/phone message, reminder note, etc.) as private. Used to prevent unauthorized proxies from accessing the item.
mark completed	marquer Effectué	In the GroupWise client, an action that flags the selected task item(s) as completed.
mark official version	marquer Version officielle	In GroupWise document management, an action that flags the selected version as the official version.
mark read	marquer Lu	In the GroupWise client, an action that flags the selected item(s) as read. Occasionally appears as 'Mark as Read'.
mark unread	marquer Non lu	In the GroupWise client, an action that flags the selected item(s) as unread. Occasionally appears as 'Mark as UnRead'.
marker supplies	fournitures de marqueurs	In Novell Distributed Print Services (NDPS), an optional source of the print device's intelligent markers.
masked directory	répertoire masqué	A directory within the replication set whose content, including any subdirectories and their content, is never synchronized with the master server. A masked directory is shown in the Replication panel as a folder icon containing neither a plus + nor a minus ? symbol. On a color monitor these folders appear gray, contrasting with the included and excluded folder icons that match the color of folders in the NetWare Administrator browser.
mass document operation	opération sur une masse de documents	In GroupWise document management, a feature that makes it possible for users or librarians to move, copy, or delete a group of documents, or to change sharing rights or document properties for a group of documents.
Mass Document Operations wizard	assistant d'opérations sur une masse de documents	A wizard that makes it possible for you to move, copy, delete, or change the properties of a group of documents you own.
master	maître, maîtresse	A NetWare file system object that has been replicated to another server, and which remains on the server on which it was created.
master agreement	accord principal	A collective bargaining agreement which serves as the pattern for major terms and conditions for an entire enterprise or corporation thereof. Local terms may be negotiated in addition to the terms set forth in the master contract.
master disk	disquette maîtresse, disquette principale	The disk from the software master shipment. See "master software."
Master Library	bibliothèque principale	In GroupWise, a library which is access by the client in Online mode.
master mailbox	boîte aux lettres principale	In GroupWise Remote, a reference to a users network mailbox.
master password	mot de passe principal	If the administrator resets an NDS* password, the user can unlock SecretStore by using the master password instead of the previous NDS password. The master password only can be used to unlock SecretStore if it becomes locked.  It does not authenticate the user in any other way.
master replica	réplique maîtresse	A writable replica that contains an instance of all object information for the partition. All partition operations (create, merge, move, create a replica, delete a replica, repair) occur in relation to the master replica of the given partition. Only one master replica at a time can exist for any partition.
master server	serveur maître	A server from which file system objects are replicated. The focal point from which a user sets up and manages the Virtual Private Network (VPN). The original source (server) or a file or group of files. Sends changes/attributions to slave servers. The changes on the slave servers don't go to the master server. The master server directs the slave server, and it is the primary source of control in the server.
master software	programme principal	The product media required to install the software. This software can be installed as needed to support any additional license purchases of the product without the need to order additional media.
match case	respecter la casse	
match whole word only	Mots entiers seulement	
material key	clé matérielle	
math function	fonction mathématique	A function that executes mathematical operations.
mature phase	phase de maturité	In Novell Support Life Cycle, the third of four phases a product goes through, the other ones being Shipping, Maintenance, and Discontinued. The Mature phase begins when the Maintenance phase ends. Full support is still offered in the areas of product planning, design, implementation and management, but defect support and testing ends. Novell stops fixing product defects during this phase and stops testing products when they enter their Mature phase. The products will no longer be included in the test suites that are used by the Novell testing laboratories. Solutions and previously released patches will be recommended to customers, and if these still do not solve the problem, customers will be invited to consider upgrading to the current version of the product.
maximum age	âge maximum	The maximum number of days you want to save the file before it is deleted.
maximum log file age	âge maximum des fichiers journal	The maximum number of days you want to save the log file before it is deleted.
MBONE	MBONE	Multicast Backbone, a multicast, virtual network that adds live audio and video capabilities to the Internet. An MBONE network is organized as clusters of networks connected by tunnels paths between end-points that support multicast transmissions; these networks support multicast Internet Protocol transmissions.
MBR (Master Boot Record)	MBR (Master Boot Record - secteur d'amorçage principal)	The first physical sector of the hard disk from which the content is loaded to the main memory and executed by the BIOS. This code then loads either the operating system from a hard disk partition or a more sophisticated boot loader, such as LILO.
media	média	Plural of medium. Physical paths over which communications flow, such as copper wires, coaxial cable or optical fiber.
media access control	contrôle d'accès au média	MAC, in the OSI reference model, the data-link layer protocol that governs communication between the data-link and physical layers for controlling the use of the network hardware.
media label	étiquette du média	A description of the contents of the backup, that helps you locate data if you restore it.
Media Manager	gestionnaire de média	A database built into NetWare that keeps track of all peripheral storage devices and media attached to NetWare servers, and allows applications to gain access and get information.
media manager cache extender	extension de mémoire cache du gestionnaire de média	
media manager data scrambler	brouilleur de données du gestionnaire de média	
media set id	ID du jeu de médias	The media label, cartridge number, and date and time of the backup. This information is recorded on the media so you can identify the data stored on the cartridge.
media support module	module de support de média	MSM, a Novell-supplied source code that is part of Multiple Link Interface Driver MLID.
medium	support	The physical stuff that carries the bits and bytes around on a network. A particular type of wire can be a medium.
member	membre	In Novell eDirectory, a Directory Schema term and a selectable property for the Group, List, and Message Routing Group objects.
membership	adhésion	The state or status of being a member.
memory	mémoire	The internal dynamic storage of a computer that can be addressed by the computers operating system, referred to frequently as RAM. Memory accepts and holds binary data. To be effective, a computer must store the data that is operated on, as well as the program that directs the operations to be performed. Types of memory include conventional, expanded, extended, upper, high, system, etc.
memory allocation pool	réserve d'allocation de mémoire	A block of memory available in a specific location on RAM for storing processes, instructions, and data.
memory protection	protection de la mémoire	The structuring of memory resources in NetWare 4.x and 5.x that guards server memory from corruption by ill-behaved NLM applications.
memory stick	carte mémoire memory stick	Expansion card. It allows users to transfer information, such as data, text, graphics or digital images from one electronic device to another quickly and easily.
merge	fusionner	To combine data from more than one file to produce a new file or document. Mail merge is a common kind of merge that inserts addresses into formatted documents. Keyboard entry can also be part of a merge process.
merge component	composant de fusion	A component that merges data.
message	message	In GroupWise, a collective term for mail and phone messages, appointments, tasks, notes, and other custom message types. See also Item.
message box	zone Message	The text box in a GroupWise view containing the body text of a mail/phone message, appointment, etc.
message database	base de données de messages	A database in the post office where the message body text is stored. Message databases are shared by multiple users in the post office. All users in a GroupWise post office are assigned to a permanent message database where their sent messages are stored.
message digest	message digest	A compressed or condensed form of a document, or an abstract from a document, that functions as a "digital fingerprint" of the larger document. A message digest is used to create a digital signature that is unique to a particular document. A message digest can be made public without revealing the contents of the document from which it is derived. This is important in digital time-stamping, where, using hash functions, one can get a document time-stamped without revealing its contents to the time-stamping service.
message file	fichier de message	In GroupWise, message files are files where each part of the message is stored.
message frame	cadre de messages	A frame that displays messages.
message handler	gestionnaire de messages	In GroupWise POA, a handler that processes message files.
message handling system	système de gestion des messages	MHS  A system of message user agents, message transfer agents, message stores, and access units that together provide Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) electronic mail.
Message Oriented Middleware	intergiciel orienté message (MOM - Message Oriented Middleware)	A software system (e.g., IBM's MQSeries software) that implements enterprise messaging.
message period	fréquence d'envoi de message	Message period is a cluster parameter held in NDS. It is used to configure the amount of time between messages sent from the GUI to the cluster.
Message Transfer Agent	agent de transfert de messages	In GroupWise, an agent that routes messages between post offices (if there is more than one post office in the domain) and between domains (if there is more than one domain in the system).
messaging	messagerie	
messaging server object	objet Serveur de messagerie	A leaf object that represents a messaging server that resides on a NetWare server. A Messaging Server object is automatically created in the NDS tree when NetWare MHS is installed on a NetWare server. The Messaging Server object is automatically placed in the same context as the NetWare Server object.
meta tag	balise META	An identifying tag for HTML or XML documents. Meta tags allow information such as keywords that identify content, the author's name, and other descriptive details.
metadata	métadonnées	The data that describes how other data is formatted and collected. Data about data; for example, tags that indicate the subject of an HTML document.
meta-directory	méta annuaire	A directory that contains information about other directories. It functions as a master directory gleaning information from all the other directories.
metafile	métafichier	A file containing information that describes or specifies another file. Most often used in references to WMF, CGM, and EMF graphics formats.
metered certificate	certificat avec compteur	
metering	compteur	
metering certificate	certificat avec compteur	In Novell Licencing Services (NLS), a certificate that allows you to track usage of applications, even those that are not NLS-enabled. By using metering certificates, you can allow users to continue using these applications while you track and manage the license units for those applications.
metric	métrique	A standard of measurement used to predict , measure, and improve performance. Metrics are used to determine the cost of sending a packet to a destination. The shortest route to a destination is obtained by selecting the route with the smallest metric. Some routing protocols use secondary metrics to select the shortest path among multiple routers advertising the same destination and cost.
MHS	MHS	Message Handling System
MIB	MIB	Management Information Base  A database of network management information about the configuration and status of nodes on a TCP/IP-based internetwork. MIB is used by the Common Management Information Protocol (CMIP) and the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP).
Middle Tier Server	serveur Middle Tier	ZENworks for Desktops Middle Tier Server. Software installed on a Windows or NetWare server where a Web server (that is, Windows IIS on a Windows server or the Apache Web server on NetWare) is already installed. The modules of the ZENworks for Desktops Middle Tier Server plug in to the Web server software and act as a Web service. The ZENworks for Desktops Middle Tier Server resides between the client (such as the Novell Client or the Microsoft Windows client) or the ZENworks for Desktops Management Agent, and databases (such as eDirectory or Active Directory) or file systems (such as NetWare or Windows). In this way, the client or the agent do not have to handle requests to the file systems or databases directly.
migrate	migrer	To move the bindery, data, and files from one Novell server to another.
Migrated attribute	attribut Migré	M, a file system attribute, set by NetWare, that indicates the file has been migrated. It is shown in attribute listings, but cant be set by users.
migration	migration	The conversion of servers from a lower to a higher NetWare version or from another operating system to NetWare.
migration	migration	The moving of data files and directories from one system to another, usually when either a system is upgraded or a different system is installed.
migration agent	agent de migration	MA. In NetWare, a tool that enables communication between IPX and IP systems. MA also enables you to create an IP backbone that interconnects IPX segments. This tool is used to migrate systems from IPX to IP in a phased manner without losing connectivity.
Migration Wizard	Assistant de migration	
minimum account balance	solde de compte minimal	In Novell eDirectory, a selectable property for the following objects: AFP Server, Messaging Server, NCP Server, Print Server, and User. It specifies the minimum amount of credit (or money) a user must have in his or her account to access specified services
minimum password length	longueur minimale du mot de passe	Short for "Minimum Password Length property."
minor resource	ressource secondaire	A category of data defined by the Target Service Agent and recognized by SBACKUP. A minor resource might be located in the directory structure below the selected major resource, for example, directories, subdirectories, or files.
mirror	mettre en miroir	To duplicate a disk, partition, server, or other device.  In NetWare, to duplicate data on two separate hard disks using the same disk channel. If the original disk fails, the duplicate disk takes over automatically, without loss of data. If the disk channel fails, however, neither disk is accessible.
mirror set	jeu de miroirs	In NetWare, a set of mirrored storage devices installed in the server.
mirrored disk partition	partition de disque en miroir	A disk partition that is duplicated by mirroring feature. See also "Mirroring."
mirrored server	serveur en miroir	The secondary server in NetWare's System Fault Toulerance III (SFT III).
mirroring	mise en miroir	A process of duplicating data from the NetWare partition on one hard disk drive to the NetWare partition on another hadr disk drive. This duplication provides fault tolerance for a file system.
mismatch	discordance	To match poorly or inappropriately.
mixed-platform network	réseau multi plates-formes	Network comprised of several platforms.
MLA	Accord de licence MLA (Master License Agreement)	The Master License Agreement (MLA) serves Novell's enterprise customers. It offers a blanket contract that enables any division or subsidiary of your company worldwide to participate. Key benefits of the MLA program include account management, cumulative volume discounts, price protection, comprehensive product maintenance, nodal pricing, and optional site licensing.
MOD	MOD	managed object database
modal	modal	Of or pertaining to a mode.
modem	modem	modulator/demodulator. A device that transmits and receives digital computer data over telephone lines.
moderator	modérateur	An individual who manages a newsgroup in order to keep the discussion focused.
modifier key	touche de modification	A key on the keyboard that modifies the meaning of other keys that are used with it, such as shift, control, command, and alt.
modify	Modifier	Short for "Modify right."
modify	modifier	To change/edit/alter existing data/options/settings
modify bit	bit de modification	A file attribute set by the operating system, when a file is changed, to indicate that data has been modified. The NetWare modify bit, called Archive Needed Attribute, appears as an "A" wherever file attributes are listed.
Modify right	droit Modifier	A file system right that allows the trustee to rename the file or directory or to change its attributes. In the case of a directory, the trustee can also rename or modify the attributes of any subordinate file or directories. This right doesnt allow the trustee to see or modify the actual contents of files.
module	module	A self-contained portion of a computer program writen, tested, and compiled separately from the main program and that performs a specific operation.
modulo	modulo	Plural: modulus. A mathematical operation modulus arithmetic in which the result is the remainder of the division.  For example, 20 MOD 3 results in 2 20/3 = 6 with a remainder of 2.
MoneyMakers	Outils d'aide à la vente	Quick reference sales tips for key Novell products and solutions
monitor	Monitor	Software that monitors the progress of activities within a computer system.
monitor	surveiller	To watch, keep track of, or check usually for a special purpose the progress of activities within a computer system.
MONITOR	MONITOR	An NLM that the network administrator uses for managing, optimizing, and troubleshooting the performance of the NetWare server.
Monitor Agent	agent Monitor	The Monitor Agent continuously polls other GroupWise agents (POA, MTA, Internet Agent, WebAccess Agent, and gateways), gathers status information from them, and displays the status information at the Monitor Agent console.
Monitor Agent console	console de l'agent Monitor	In GroupWise Monitor, a Windows-based console which can be used to view information about other GroupWise agents (POA, MTA, Internet Agent, WebAccess Agent, and gateways) gathered by GroupWise Monitor Agent, including current status, up time, number of errors, and number of messages processed. Monitor Agent console can be accessed only at the Windows machine where the Monitor Agent runs.
Monitor Application	application Monitor	An application installed on a web server that extends the capability of web server so that agent status information can be displayed in the Monitor agent console.
monitor community	communauté Monitor	A community name. Any SNMP manager that provides this community name is granted read access to the SNMP information base. By default, the monitor community is set to "public".
monitor configuration file	fichier de configuration de Monitor	File containing one or more configuration command lines.
Monitor Web console	console Web de Monitor	In GroupWise Monitor, a web-based console which can be used to view information about other GroupWise agents (POA, MTA, Internet Agent, WebAccess Agent, and gateways) gathered by GroupWise Monitor Agent, including current status, up time, number of errors, and number of messages processed. Monitor Web console can be accessed on any machine where a Web browser is available.
Mono Project	projet Mono	The Mono Project is a Novell open source version of the Microsoft .NET development platform that enables Linux and UNIX developers to build and deploy cross-platform .NET applications.
more	plus d'infos	A link on novell.com web pages that refers to the full article.
mount	monter	To make a device or file or other entity locally available on a computer.  For example, in NFS (Network File System), a server maintains a list of its directories that are available to clients. When a client mounts a directory on the server, that directory and its subdirectories become part of the client's directory hierarchy.
mount point	point de montage	A workstation directory to which you mount a file system that exists on a remote machine.  The mount point, a directory in the currently accessible filesystem (typically an empty directory) becomes synonymous with the root directory of the subtree from the new drive, and the original contents of the mount point becomes invisible and inaccessible until the filesystem is dismounted.
mounted media	support monté	In Novell Distributed Print Services (NDPS), a media (form) on which jobs can be printed without stopping the printer to mount a different medium (form). The default on the printer is Any Medium, which allows jobs to be printed using the currently mounted medium regardless of media specified in the job data. Media are mounted through the printer's Printer Control/Control pull-down menu at the Printer Details page in NetWare Administrator.
mounted volume	volume monté	A NetWare volume for which MOUNT command has been executed to make it available to users.
movable pool	réserve mobile	Two pools, movable and nonmovable (see this term), are pools where the file cache buffer stores the most frequently used files. They are the pools from which all other pools obtain additional memory. They both obtain and return memory from the cache buffer pool. The movable pool is used for system tables that change size, such as FATs and hash tables.
MP	multiprocesseur	MultiProcessor
MPK stub	stub MPK	NetWares kernel is designed to run on more than one processor.  The Multi-Processor Kernel MPK allows threads to migrate to CPUs other than the main or primary one, which is CPU zero CPU0. If a module creates a thread that is not designed to run on a non-zero processor, the kernel must ensure that the thread is sent to, or funneled to, processor zero.  This is done by MPK stubs.  An MPK Stub, then, is a piece of code that forces a threat to run on processor zero P0.
MTA	MTA	Message Transfer Agent. In GroupWise, an agent that routes messages between post offices (if there is more than one post office in the domain) and between domains (if there is more than one domain in the system).
MTP	MTP	In GroupWise, Message Transfer Protocol.
MTU	MTU	
multi-Access WAN interface	interface WAN multi-accès	In Novell Internet Access Server (NIAS), one of three possible WAN network modes for PPP interface. This mode is used when TCP/IP can connect with one or more WAN call destinations through the network interface, and the system and the collection of remote destinations are part of a single IP network. Other two modes are Unnumbered Point-to-Point and Numbered Single Point-to-Point.
multicast	multidiffusion	A transmission method in which only those devices listening for a specified multicast packet address accept the routing information packet.
multicast	multidiffusion	A transmission method in which only those devices listening for a specified multicast packet address accept the routing information packet.
multicast	multidiffuser	To multicast an image is to take an image of one computer (the master), immediately send it over the network to multiple other computers (the participants), and lay it down simultaneously on those computers.
multicast broadcast frame	trame de diffusion et de multidiffusion	
Multicast mode	mode Multicast (multidiffusion)	In ZENworks for Desktops, an imaging mode that takes an image of one computer and places it on multiple other computers simultaneously over the network without eDirectory or ZENworks for Desktops Server involvement. Also called the Session mode.
multicast session	session multidiffusion	An imaging session in which an image of one computer (the master)  is taken, sent over the network to multiple other computers (the participants), and laid down simultaneously on those computers. The session can be set up automatically or the administrator can physically visit each computer.
multicasting	multidiffusion	Multicasting is the way to use ZEN for Desktops imaging services for mass reimaging with the least amount of overhead. In other words, it allows you to take an image of one computer (the master), immediately send it over the network to multiple other computers (the participants), and lay it down simultaneously on those computers. Also referred to as "multicast".
multifactor authentication	authentification multi-critères	Authentifying a user based on several singular items.
multi-homed network	réseau à points d'accès internet multiples	A network that has more than one connection route to the Internet
multihoming	multihébergement	The ability of a single Internet server to run multiple virtual servers, each of which can be configured to communicate with the Internet through a different networking interface. Multihoming allows a single Web server to host multiple domains.
multiple link interface driver	MLID (Multiple Link Interface Driver)	MLID, a device driver written to the ODI specification that handles the sending and receiving of packets to and from a physical or logical LAN medium.
multiple-byte character	caractère multi-octet	A single character made up of more than one byte. One byte allows 256 different characters. Since the number of ASCII characters equals 256, a computer can handle each ASCII character with one byte. Asian character sets, however, include more than 256 characters; in this case, a computer must use two bytes for each character.
multiplex	multiplexer (verbe)	
multiplexer	multiplexeur	MUX. An electronic device that accepts several transmission signals and combines them in one high speed transmission. Device that allows a single communications circuit to take the place of several parallel ones; often used to allow remote terminals to communicate with front-end processor ports over a single circuit.
multiplexing	multiplexage	A method that allows a single communications circuit to take the place of several parallel ones. Multiplexing is often used to allow remote terminals to communicate with front-end processor ports over a single circuit.
multiprocessor-safe	capable de s'exécuter dans un environnement multiprocesseur	Refers to a multithreaded program written in such a way that concurrent operations do not contaminate or misuse shared data and resources. If the code is not multiprocessor- (or multithread-) safe, it will fail to execute safely in environments that include multiple processors or preemption.
multi-protocol file access	accès fichiers via protocoles multiples	Ability to manage and access files on a variety of computers regardless of their OS and without the need for a client.
multiprotocol router	routeur multiprotocole	MPR, a software-based bridge and router combination brouter that can concurrently route Internetwork Packet Exchange IPX, Transmission-Control Protocol/Internet Protocol TCP/IP, and AppleTalk across both local-area netwroks LANs and wide-area networks WANs. The NetWare Multiprotocol Router supports Ethernet, Token Ring, Fiber Distributed Data INterface FDDI, Fast Ethernet, and ARCnet network topologies.
multi-site network	réseau multisite	Network spanning over several sites of an organization.
multitasking	multitâche	The execution of more than one application or thread at a time in order for a computer to perform simultaneous tasks.
multiuser	multi-utilisateur	A term describing an operating system that supports more than one simultaneous user. Network systems are an example of multiuser environments.
multi-user list	liste multi-utilisateur	In GroupWise, a list of names used to control which user schedules are displayed in a multi-user Calendar view.
multi-user view	vue multi-utilisateur	In GroupWise, a Calendar view that lets users who have proxy rights see the schedules for multiple users or resources.
multi-valued	à plusieurs valeurs	
multivendor support	support de distributeurs multiples	
mutex	mutex	Short for MUTual EXclusion object. In computer programming, a mutex is a program object that allows multiple program threads to share the same resource, such as file access, but not simultaneously. When a program is started, a mutex is created with a unique name. After this stage, any thread that needs the resource must lock the mutex from other threads while it is using the resource. The mutex is set to unlock when the data is no longer needed or the routine is finished.
myapps.html	myapps.html	In ZENworks for Desktops, the HTML page that opens the Application Browser view. It is installed to the ZENworks for Desktops Middle Tier Server so that users can access it from that Web server. It is also installed to users' workstations by the ZENworks for Desktops Management Agent installation program and the ZENworks for Desktops installation manager so that users can access the Application Browser without a Middle Tier Server.
NAEC	NAEC	Novell Authorized Education Center  An independent training organization that meets Novell's stringent education standards and is authorized to teach Novell-developed courses using Novell Certified NetWare Instructors (CNIs).  NAECs provide systems training on Novell networking and network application products. They also sell self-study education products, such as workbooks, videos, and computer-based training (CBT) materials.
NAL cache	cache NAL	Novell Application Launcher cache. In ZENworks for Desktops, a hidden directory (nalcache) that Novell Application Launcher creates on the root of the Windows drive to contain the information used by Novell Application Launcher to install, launch, and heal applications while in disconnected mode.
NAL plug-in	plug-in NAL	Novell Application Launcher plug-in. In ZENworks for Desktops, a Web browser plug-in that users can download from a ZENworks Middle Tier Server. The plug-in provides only the Novell Application Launcher files required to launch user-associated application (not workstation-associated applications) from the Application Explorer or Application Browser views. To install the plug-in, users must have administrative rights to their workstations.
NAL Service for Windows	Service NAL pour Windows	Novell Application Launcher Service. In ZENworks for Desktops, a Windows service (nalntsrv.exe) that runs in the workstation’s system space to enable Novell Application Launcher to install, uninstall, cache, and run applications when the user does not have the required workstation file system access or when an application has been configured to run in the system space rather than the user space.
NAL Workstation Helper	NAL WS Helper	Also referred to as Helper. In ZENworks for Desktops, the user workstation software that plugs in to Workstation Manager and enables workstation-associated applications to be installed, uninstalled, cached, and run. This allows for application management based on the workstation rather than a user logged in to the workstation.
name binding protocol	protocole NBP	NBP, an AppleTalk protocol that maps entity names to their corresponding internetwork addresses. For example, Macintosh Chooser and atcon.nlm find AppleTalk entities using NBP.
name completion	achèvement de noms	In the GroupWise client, a feature that tries to complete the name when user begins typing a name in the To, CC, or BC boxes of an item. It searches the address books in the order specified in the Name Completion Search Order dialog box.
name context	contexte du nom	The position of an object in the NDS tree. This position is described by listing the container objects leading from the object to the [Root] of the NDS tree.
name resolution	résolution de nom	The process by which a network address is associated with a hostname assigned by the network administrator. In the Domain Name System (DNS) this process translates an IP address into a hostname.
name server	serveur de noms	A server that maintains a DNS database of hostname and IP address mappings. Name servers respond to queries from servers and client workstations for host addresses. Each DNS zone must include a name server containing information about each host in the zone.
name space	espace de noms	A set of all the names in a naming system or instances of a name system.
name type	type de nom	Distiguishes the type of object name, such as O, OU, or CN.
named pipes	named pipes (tubes nommés)	The basis for communication between a client and advanced client-server applications such as the Microsoft SQL Server and Microsoft Comm Server software. For NetWare Client workstations, communication between client-server applications is implemented most frequently using the named pipes interprocess communication IPC protocol.
name-only directory	répertoire à réplication nominale	The name and attributes of a directory that have been created as a result of replication. The contents of the directory are not replicated. Name-only directories are replicated to preserve the user's view of a volume's directory structure when working with data from that volume on a replica server.
name-only directory	répertoire à réplication nominale	The name and attributes of a directory that have been created as a result of replication. The contents of the directory are not replicated. Name-only directories are replicated to preserve the users view of a volumes directory structure when working with data from that volume on a replica server.
Namespace support	support d'espace de noms	(.NAM extension) allows non-DOS naming conventions to be stored in the directory and file naming system.
naming attribute	attribut d'assignation de nom	The name that is displayed for an object in the NDS tree.
naming property	propriété d'assignation de nom	
NAT	NAT	(Network Address Translation) An IETF standard that allows an organization to present itself to the Internet with one address. NAT converts the address of each LAN node into one IP address for the Internet and vice versa. It also serves as a firewall by keeping individual IP addresses hidden from the outside world.
National Partner	partenaire local	National Partner
Native File Access for Macintosh	Native File Access pour Macintosh	
Native File Access for Windows	Native File Access pour Windows	
Native File Access Pack	Native File Access Pack	A server-based solution that enables users on Windows, Macintosh and Unix operating systems to access storage on NetWare 5.1 and NetWare 6 servers without installing special client software on each workstation.
native*	natif	In computer systems, native means "original" or "specific to the originating environment/system", i.e., not requiring a layer of translation or emulation in order to function.
Natural mask	masque naturel	The mask in binary notation is a series of 1s followed by a series of contiguous 0s. A mask is used to separate the network information from the host information on an IP address. Natural Mask is the mask of a network. Each network has a natural mask.
natural network mask	masque de réseau naturel	
NCP packet signature	signature de paquet NCP	NetWare Core Protocol Packet Signature. An enhanced security feature that protects servers and workstations using NCP by preventing packet forgery.
NDAP context	contexte NDAP	A data structure describing how you wish to address NDS. You cannot directly access the data in an NDAP context. You must use a ContextHandle to reference it. The data is available only through the NWDSGetContext() and NWDSSetContext() accessor routines provided in the Novell libraries.
NDPS	NDPS	Novell Distributed Print Services  Print services software that allows network administrators to manage network printing from within NDS. Features include bi-directional feedback, configurable event notification, automatic printer driver download function, protocol independence, and backward compatibility.
NDPS broker	courtier NDPS	A component of Novell Distributed Print Services (NDPS) that provides three network support services: the Service Registry Service (SRS), Event Notification Service (ENS), and Resource Management Service (RMS).
NDPS manager	gestionnaire NDPS	A Novell Distributed Print Services (NDPS) Manager provides a platform for Printer Agents that reside on the server. An NDPS Manager must be created as an object in the eDirectory tree before you can create server-based Printer Agents. See also 'NDPS Manager object'.
NDPS Manager object	objet Gestionnaire NDPS	An eDirectory object that stores information used by the NetWare Loadable Module (NLM), NDPSM.NLM. See also 'NDPS Manager'.
NDS	NDS	Novell Directory Services. Novell's directory services software. A distributed, replicated naming service that maintains information about, and provides access to, every resource on the network. With version 8.5 of the Novell Directory Services software, NDS has been renamed to eDirectory.
NDS account	compte NDS	Users who don't have an NDS account must be created in NDS as GroupWise external entities before they can be given a GroupWise account.
NDS context	contexte NDS	An NDS context is similar to a directory name for a file.
NDS tree	arborescence NDS	A hierarchical structure of objects in the NDS database. The NDS tree includes container objects that are used to organize the network and leaf objects that represent resources.
nearline	lent	Available within a short amount of time, but not instantly. Tape and disk libraries are considered nearline devices, because it takes several seconds to retrieve the appropriate cartridge before it can be read.
nearly-in-sync	presque en synchronisation	a clock status meaning that time is synchronized in as close as 0.5 seconds
NEAT	NEAT	Novell Easy Administration Tool,  an administrative utility that allows a network administrator of a NetWare for Small Business network to perform two primary categories of tasks: - Adding, deleting, or renaming objects users, groups, printers, applications in the NDS database. - Modifying or editing properties associated with those objects. End users can use NEAT for certain tasks, such as editing their login scripts, if the network administrator gives them rights.
need free clean page	page libre disponible requise	A flag that indicates when the virtual memory system needs some clean pages to use.
neighbor	voisin	A NetWare Link Services Protocol (NLSP) router that can communicate directly with another NLSP router; that is, without the aid of an intermediate router. Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) routers can also function as neighbors.
neighboring router	routeur voisin	In the Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) protocol, a router that shares a route to the same network with another router.
Net business	Net business	Any business that is deriving revenue at least in part from the Internet (from the Net).
Net Services	Net Services	A business concept is the idea that the World Wide Web is moving beyond e-business and e-commerce (that is, completing sales on the Web) into a new phase where many business services can be provided for a business or consumer using the Web. Also called e-services.
NetBIOS	NetBIOS	Network Basic Input/Output System, an application program interface that is typically used on local area networks comprising IBM and compatible microcomputers. NetBIOS separates application programs from the networking subsystem, so that application program implementers can support multiple network designs, and so that a network system can support independently developed applications.
NetIdentity	NetIdentity	A Novell agent which provides a secure identity wallet on the workstation so that applications that require eDirectoryTM authentication can access these credentials and bypass asking users for their usernames and passwords.
NetIdentity	NetIdentity	1. In ZENworks for Desktops, the "client" that forms the core of the Desktop Management Agent. In addition to providing an HTTP-based authentication and session management framework, it also provides a secure area that can be used for credential caching. 2. In ZENworks for Desktops, the default certificate created on NetWare 6 and NetWare 5.1 servers during ZENworks for Desktops Middle Tier Server installation. NetIdentity is used for authentication purposes.
netiquette	netiquette	A set of unwritten rules that govern the use of electronic mail e-mail and other network services. The term is a contraction of "network etiquette."
netizen	citoyen du Net	A term that describes a citizen of the Internet, or someone who uses network resources.
NetWare	NetWare	
NetWare	NetWare	1. Operating system for local area networks (LANs) developed by Novell, Inc. It provides the ability to share services across dissimilar platforms. It uses the NetWare Core Protocol (NCP), Internetwork Packet Exchange (IPX), and Sequential Packet Exchange (SPX) protocols transparently.  2. The Novell network operating system that provides the ability to share services across dissimilar platforms. NetWare transparently uses the NetWare Core Protocol (NCP), Internetwork Packet Exchange (IPX), and Sequenced Packet Exchange (SPX) protocols transparently.
NetWare 6.5 Audio tutorial	Formation audio sur NetWare 6.5	An audio tutorial for NetWare 6.5
NetWare 6.5 Go-to-Market Kit	Kit de solutions commerciales pour NetWare 6.5	Tools, training and resources to sell and promote the latest NetWare 6.5.
NetWare 6.5 Money Maker	MoneyMaker NetWare 6.5	NetWare training program
NetWare 6.5 QuickTrain	QuickTrain NetWare 6.5	NetWare 6.5 training program
NetWare Accelerated Upgrade	mise à niveau accélérée de NetWare	An advanced utility that can be used to upgrade a NetWare 4.11, NetWare 4.2, or NetWare 5 server to NetWare 6. NetWare Accelerated Upgrade is intended for use by network administrators who are skilled at troubleshooting and installing NetWare networks.
NetWare Administrator	Administrateur NetWare	A NetWare graphical utility used to create objects and to assign properties. NetWare Administrator combines all the tools necessary to administer an entire network, using a single, intuitive interface.
NetWare Cluster Services	services de grappe NetWare	Old name for Novell Cluster Services (NCS). No longer used in recent Novell products.
NetWare communication services	services de communication NetWare	A family of products that provide communication services for NetWare. NetWare Communication Services include the Communication Executive, which is not a separate product, but is bundled with each product in the NetWare Communication Services family.
NetWare Core Protocol	protocole NCP	NCP  A packet-based protocol that enables a client to send requests to and receive replies from a NetWare server.
NetWare Deployment Manager	gestionnaire de distribution de NetWare	
NetWare enhanced security	sécurité améliorée de NetWare	A NetWare 4.11 feature that allows you to set up a network that is considered secure from the client to the server and everything in-between.
NetWare Enterprise Server	NetWare EnterPrise Server	Product name
NetWare Enterprise Web Server	NetWare Enterprise web Server	Product name
NetWare link services protocol	protocole NLSP	NLSP, the link state protocol used by IPX routers and servers to share information about their routes with other devices on the network. NLSP enables network managers to interconnect small or large IPX networks without routing inefficiencies.
NetWare Link/X.25	NetWare Link/X.25	Novells implementation of X.25 for the NetWare MultiProtocol Router. The X.25 wide area networking product was replaced by NetWare WAN Links.
NetWare loadable module	module chargeable NetWare	NLM, a program that runs on the NetWare OS. Once loaded, an NLM becomes part of the network OS. An NLM can be dynamically loaded and unloaded. Types of NLM programs include disk drivers .dsk extension, LAN drivers .lan extension, management utilities and server applications modules .nlm extension, and name space support .nam extension.
NetWare management agent	agent de gestion NetWare	NMA, a group of NLM programs that provide server statistics and notify the NetWare Management System NMS console of alarm conditions. When installed on each server in the network, NetWare Management Agent allows the network administrator to monitor, manage, and maintain all servers from a central console. NetWare Management Agent provides a graphical representation of all managed objects and their attributes, including a servers hardware, software, or data components.
NetWare management portal	NetWare Management Portal	Sometimes incorrectly used as NetWare Management Portal.  This is the name of our product.  It is a utility for managing a NetWare server via a window or view "portal" frm the web.  You can see and change NetWare server items from a web browser on a client machine, instead of at the servers physical console
NetWare News Server	NetWare News Server	The NetWare News Server---formerly the Netscape Collabra Server---is an enterprise news server based on the open Network News Transfer Protocol (NNTP). This open standard lets client newsreaders on multiple platforms access the NetWare News Server to read and post articles. For the developer, Netscape provides API extensions to enhance the capabilities of the NetWare News Server.
NetWare NFS	NetWare NFS	NetWare Networked File System 1. A product that enables UNIX clients to access files on a NetWare server just as they would on an NFS server. NetWare NFS also allows UNIX clients to share files with NetWare clients and spool print jobs to NetWare printers. NetWare NFS turns NetWare into a powerful NFS server for UNIX workgroups. 2. Software that transparently integrates UNIX systems with NetWare 4 file systems and resources to give UNIX users access to the NetWare environment from their native operating system.
NetWare patch	correctif NetWare	
NetWare peripheral architecture	architecture périphérique de NetWare	NPA, NWPA, an extension of the NetWare Media Manager a database built into NetWare for managing storage devices and media. NPA separates NetWare driver support into two components: a HAM and a CDM. The HAM drives the host adapter hardware. The CDM drives storage devices or autochangers attached to a host adapter bus.
NetWare remote console	console à distance NetWare	Remote Console, Novell software that enables a network supervisor to manage servers from a workstation.
NetWare Remote Manager	NetWare Remote Manager	NRM. In NetWare 6, a browser-based utility that you can use to manage your NetWare server from any network workstation running a browser. This utility provides most of the functionality of MONITOR, along with some functionality from other utilities available at the server console. You can use NetWare Remote Manager to monitor your server's health, change the configuration of your server, or perform diagnostic and debugging tasks.
NetWare Requester	requêteur NetWare	Full name: NetWare DOS Requester. The DOS client software portion of NetWare 4 and earlier. It is the connection point between local software (DOS) and network services. The DOS Requester is made up of many Virtual Loadable Module (VLM) files.
NetWare runtime	NetWare Runtime	A limited-connection version of the NetWare operating system usually shipped with standalone Novell products. NetWare Runtime is a network server platform supporting front-end or back-end applications as well as basic NLM programs such as communication services, database servers, electronic mail, and other third-party applications.
NetWare server	serveur NetWare	The domain directory can be located on any NetWare server (3.12, 4.1, or 5.) or Windows NT/2000 server or workstation.
NetWare server object	objet Serveur NetWare	A leaf object in the NDS tree that represents a server running any version of NetWare.
NetWare symmetric multiprocessing	NetWare SMP	NetWare SMP, Novell software that allows multiprocessor-enabled NLM programs to run on a system in which all processors can perform all tasks. At runtime, an algorithm assigns tasks to each processor as necessary to balance the work load. A symmetric multiprocessing system is the opposite of an asymmetric system, in which different processors are dedicated to different kinds of tasks.
NetWare Users International	NUI (NetWare Users International)	NUI, an independent, not-for-profit professional society established to foster communication among NetWare users by organizing and supporting user groups. NUI offers the following resources and support tools to help users and user groups find one another and exchange information: - Novell Connection - NUGgets - NetWare User Conferences - NUInet - NetWire - NUI Media Library.
NetWare-aware application	application NetWare	
NetWare-encrypted password	mot de passe NetWare codé	A NetWare-style password encoded by the NetWareUser Authentication Method UAM software on your Macintosh workstation before transmission to the NetWare server.
network	réseau	A system of interconnected, individually controlled computers and peripherals, and the hardware and software used to connect them.
network adapter	adaptateur réseau	A printed circuit board that plugs into both the clients (personal computers or workstations) and servers in a network. It controls the exchange of data between them at the data link level, also known as the "access method" (OSI layers 1 and 2). See data link protocol and OSI model. A transmission medium, such as twisted pair, coax or fiber-optic cable, interconnects all adapters to network hubs or switches, or in the case of a bus network, to each other. Also known as a "network interface card" or "NIC," Ethernet is the most widely used network access method. If no other network technology is mentioned, seeing the term network adapter or NIC, or simply "network ready" or "LAN ready," generally implies Ethernet. Token Ring and LocalTalk networks have also been widely used from time to time.
network address	adresse réseau	The internal number assigned by the network that specifies where a device (such as a server or workstation) can be located in the network cabling system.
Network address translation table	table de traduction d'adresses réseau	To access the Internet, a host must have a globally unique address assigned by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority IANA or other Internet registry. However, because of the depletion of registered IP addresses, it might be impractical to reassign globally unique IP addresses to all the systems on your private network. NAT solves this problem by automatically reassigning a globally unique address to any host that accesses the Internet through a particular router interface. NAT enables the hosts on your private network to access the Internet even if their IP addresses are not globally unique.
network administrator	administrateur réseau	The person responsible for setting up and maintaining the network. The network administrator has the Supervisor right to create and manage objects in the NDS tree. Generally, this means the person who has a trustee assignment to the [Root] object of the eDirectory tree, which would include the Supervisor rights to the entire eDirectory tree. However, the specific part of the eDirectory tree where this person has rights can vary from network to network.
Network Attached Storage (NAS)	stockage en réseau (NAS)	Storage on networks, or soft storage
network aware application	application réseau	An application created to run on a network that can directly access network services, such as printing.
network basic input/output system	NetBIOS	NetBIOS, an application program interface typically used on local area networks made up of IBM and compatible microcomputers. NetBIOS separates application programs from the networking subsystem so that application program implementers can support multiple network designs, and so that a network system can support independently developed applications.
network control protocol	protocole NCP	NCP, the protocol that provides procedures for establishing, configuring, and terminating interaction between peers over a PPP link. For example, Internet Protocol Control Protocol IPCP is the Network Control Protocol for TCP/IP.
network device interface specification	NDIS (Network Device Interface Specification)	NDIS
network direct printer	imprimante directement connectée au réseau	A printer and third-party print queue server that connect directly to the network.
network directory	répertoire réseau	A directory located not on the computer being used, but rather on another computer in a network. A network directory is also known as a shared folder.
network discovery	identification des périphériques du réseau	Feature that lists the devices within a network.
network drive	unité réseau	
network interface board	carte d'interface réseau	Technically, a network interface board includes all of the physical and logical connections between your computer, or other device, and the transmission medium. Typically, it is a logic board you install in a computer to connect it to a cable’s connector. However, network interface boards may be an interface card, a portion of the device’s logic board, software and a generic hardware port, or a number of external devices.
network interface card	carte d'interface réseau	NIC, a circuit board that provides the interface between software and hardware in order to facilitate network communication. For example, it allows workstations to communicate with each other or with the server, or allows a printer to communicate with the server.
network layer	couche Réseau	The third of seven layers in the OSI model. The network layer ensures that information arrives at its intended destination. It also smooths out the differences between network media so that higher layers do not need to account for the distinctions.
network management	gestion réseau	The process of ensuring consistent reliability and availability of a network, as well as timely transmission and routing of data. Network management can be performed by dedicated devices or programmed general-purpose devices.
network news transfer protocol	protocole NNTP	NNTP, a protocol for managing, distributing, and reading the messages posted on  the Usenet news system on the Internet.
network number	numéro réseau	In an IPX network, a number that uniquely identifies a network cable segment; usually referred to as the IPX external network number. In a TCP/IP network, the number of the network. The network number can be specified with or without trailing zeros. For example, the addresses 130.57 and 130.57.0.0 denote the same IP network. In an AppleTalk network, a decimal integer between 1 and 65,279 assigned to each nonextended network supporting AppleTalk.
network operating system	système d'exploitation réseau	NOS, software that is installed on network servers connected to a local area network LAN. The software controls computers and resources attached to the network.
network search drive mapping	assignation d'unité de recherche réseau	A pointer to a directory that contains applications, operating system files, and so forth that allow execution of a program even if it is not physically located in that directory.  The mapping enables the operating system to locate the file.
network topology	topologie réseau	The arrangement of nodes on a network; usually a star, ring, tree, or bus organization.
networking	réseautique	The construction, design, and use of a network, including the physical components (cabling, hub, bridge, switch, router, and so forth), the selection and use of telecommunication protocol and computer software for using and managing the network, and the establishment of operation policies and procedures related to the network. (Source: searchNetworking.com) See also network, LAN and enterprise networking. Internetworking.
network-network interface	interface de réseau à réseau	NNI, the way a frame relay network interconnects so that users subscribing to different frame relay network providers can communicate.
New RDN	Nouveau RDN	An obituary type that designates an object whose Relative Distinguished Name (RDN) has been changed. This obituary is assigned to the nonpresent object that has the original RDN.
news	news	a generic name given to the entire set of UseNet newsgroups.
news	news	a generic name given to the entire set of UseNet newsgroups.
news server	serveur de news	An Internet server that hosts discussion groups.
newsfeed	diffusion de news	Within Internet discussion groups, synonymous with replication. Newsfeed is the term used by the Usenet community.
newsgroup	forum	On the Internet, an informal bulletin board. Newsgroups are focused on specific agreed-upon topics or groups of like messages. Common newsgroups include alt (alternative view or "for fun"), comp (computer), misc (miscellaneous), news (usually but not always related to networking), rec (recreational activities), sci (science), soc (social issues), and talk (extended discussions on any topic).
newsreader	lecteur de news	Software that can access and read messages stored on a news server.
NFS Gateway	NFS Gateway	Tool that enables NetWare 6 servers to access Unix and Linux NFS exported file systems. Using the gateway, NetWare servers can mount NFS file systems as virtual NetWare Novell Storage Servicesâ„¢ (NSS) volumes. And once this occurs, NetWare clients can transparently access files and directories on any NFS server system on the network.
NFS permission	autorisation NFS	In NFS, the ability to access (read, write, execute, traverse, etc.) a file or directory.
NICI	NICI	Novell International Cryptographic Infrastructure
NICI foundation key	clé de fondation NICI	The basic keys that work NICI needs
nickname	surnom	A GroupWise Nickname allows you to send e-mail to a different user name than the GroupWise Account ID.
NLM	NLM	List the post offices you are installing the NLM POA for.
NLS-enabled	doté de fonctions NLS	Refers to a software or an application to which Novell Licensing Services (NLS) functions have been added. By utilizing NLS functions, such software or application can accomplish tasks such as requesting and releasing licenses, installing, moving, and deleting licenses, viewing license usage by a particular application, and managing NLS servers.
NNLS	NNLS	Novell® Nterprise™ Linux Services (NNLS) is a software package that provides a comprehensive set of network services that run on enterprise Linux platforms, such as Red Hat and SuSE.
NNTP	NNTP	Network News Transfer Protocol, a protocol used for managing, distributing, and reading the messages posted on Usenet news groups on the Internet.
NNTP server	serveur NNTP	NNTP servers manage the global network of collected Usenet newsgroups and include the server at your Internet access provider.
No Obligation to Purchase	Aucune Obligation d'Achat	It is when an agreement is not construed as committing a person to purchase licenses for the commercially available version of a software.
no stop policy	règle de non-arrêt	A policy type in a license certificate object, which ignores situations in which no license units are available. NLS keeps track of the overage by logging the noncompliance but does not inform or warn the user. Compare with "hard stop policy" and "soft stop policy"
node	noeud	An addressable entity on a network. This term sometimes refers to a device itself. Some examples of nodes are computers, printers, and file servers.
node address	adresse de nœud	A number that uniquely identifies a network board. The number is acquired dynamically by each node when it comes up on a network. A node address is often referred to as a node number, but some node numbers are factory set rather than being dynamic.
node license	licence par noeuds	It allows customers to purchase Novell System Products on a nodal basis rather than by stratified server licenses.
nondedicated router	routeur non dédié	A nondedicated router is an external router that can function simultaneously as a router and as a workstation. In a nondedicated router, the workstations NetWare workstation files runs "on top of" the router software.
none	aucun	A Small Business Suite directory and file right. No rights are granted to the file or directory.
non-exclusive right	droit non exclusif	A right that is not reserved exclusively by a particular person or company.
nonextended network	réseau non étendu	An AppleTalk network that does not support AppleTalk Phase 2 extensions, such as zone lists and network ranges. A nonextended network is an AppleTalk Phase 1 network.
non-modal	non modal	Not of or pertaining to a mode.
nonmovable pool	réserve fixe	Two pools, movable (see this term) and nonmovable, are pools where the file cache buffer stores the most frequently used files. They are the pools from which all other pools obtain additional memory. They both obtain and return memory from the cache buffer pool. The nonmovable pool is used for loadable modules, which it stores in memory.
non-NDS user	utilisateur non-NDS	GroupWise external entities represent non-NDS users and are added to NDS (eDirectory) for the sole purpose of assigning GroupWise accounts to these users.
non-Novell	d'un fabricant tiers, autre que Novell	Something that is not attributed to Novell.
non-repudiation	non-rejet	Option on the Public Key Usage Property Page. A check mark in this check box indicates that the public key is used in verifying digital signatures used to provide a non-repudiation service. This protects against the signing entity falsely denying some action, excluding certificate or CRL signing.
non-seed interface	interface non configurée	The interface on a device (eg router) that has no network number or zone name information on its own.
non-seed router	routeur non configuré	A router that has no network number or zone name information on its own and that gets its configuration information from a seed router.
non-stop	non-stop	Without stopping or without interruptions; refers to streaming when used in the context of data transfer.
non-transferable right	droit incessible	A right that cannot be used by anyone other than the person/company to which it was granted.
non-zero	différent de zéro	
normal attribute	attribut Normal	N, a file system attribute that indicates that no NetWare file system attributes are set. The Normal attribute is automatically set by NetWare. It is shown in attribute listings but cant be set by users.
normal worktodo	WorkToDo normal	Compared to a "Fast WorkToDo," the Normal WorkToDo is a thread that is queued for execution by the processor with no special priority.  It can be pre-empted as needed, since its task is not necessarily time-critical.
NOS	système d'exploitation réseau	network operating system, software that is installed on network servers connected to a Local Area Network LAN. The software controls computers and resources attached to the network.
notarized certificate	certificat notarié	
notice	mention	Information, usually in writing in all legal proceedings, of all documents filed, decisions, requests, motions, petitions, and upcoming dates. Notice is a vital principle of fairness and due process in legal procedure and must be given to both parties, to all those affected by a lawsuit or legal proceeding, to the opposing attorney and to the court. In short, neither a party nor the court can operate in secret, make private overtures or conceal actions.
notification	notification	In the GroupWise client, a feature that allows user to be notified of incoming items and the status of message instead of checking GroupWise properties. Notify must be running to receive notification of alarms, incoming items, or a change in status of outgoing items. The notification can be by way of a mail receipt, notification message, or both.
notification	notification	The act or an instance of notifying.
notification list	liste de notifications	A list which displays items that user has received. Notify checks in designated folders for unread items and displays them in the list.
notify	notifier	use different example than above
Notify	Notify	Short for "GroupWise Notify."
Novell Academy QuickTrain	Novell Academy QuickTrain	Novell training material.
Novell Access and Security	Novell Access and Security	Novell specific term. Application dealing with the access of users to the network, servers, etc. and the security needed for that access.
Novell Account Management	Novell Account Management	Novell specific term. Managing the identities of users in form of "accounts".
Novell Activator	clé d'activation de produit Novell	A key given to customers to activate a license or package of licences.
Novell Active Information Portal	Novell Active Information Portal	Novell specific term. Portal application to actively utilize data, software, etc.
Novell Alliance Program	programme Novell Alliance	A partnership between Novell and professional service companies to provide customers with comprehensive network design and support services.
Novell Application Browser	parcoureur d'applications Novell	Application Browser. In ZENworks for Desktops, one of three Novell Application Launcher views. The Application Browser is used to view and launch applications from a Web browser.
Novell Application Launcher (NAL)	programme de lancement d'applicatifs Novell (NAL)	A NetWare utility that allows users to run applications that were previously configured by a network administrator. The applications are displayed as icons. Users double-click the icon to launch the application
Novell Authentication Server	Novell Authentication Server	Is designed to provide the customer a single digital identity with which he or she can obtain personal account information via the Internet
Novell Authorized Education Center	NAEC (Novell Authorized Education Center - Centre de formation agréé Novell)	a.k.a. NAEC -  An independent training organization that meets Novell's stringent education standards and is authorized to teach Novell-developed courses using Novell Certified NetWare Instructors (CNIs). ¶ NAECs provide systems training on Novell networking and network application products. They also sell self-study education products, such as workbooks, videos, and computer-based training (CBT) materials.
Novell Authorized Reseller	distributeur agréé Novell	Software reseller selling Novell software under a contract
Novell authorized reseller	distributeur agréé Novell	The company that is authorized as a Novell channel partner.
Novell BorderManager	Novell BorderManager	Novell BorderManager is an access and security solution that addresses internal and external security threats.
Novell Business Process Management	Novell Business Process Management	Novell specific term. Managing the procedures in an organisation.
Novell Certificate Server	serveur de certificats Novell	This is a set of services that enable the use of public key cryptography and digital certificates in an NDS environment.  Novell Certificate Server allows administrators to establish an Organizational Certificate Authority (CA) within NDS. The Organizational CA is used by administrators to mint unlimited numbers of server and end-user certificates and to perform management activities that enable software to use public key cryptography. Server certificates are used primarily for enabling SSL communications. User certificates are used primarily for enabling secure email (S/MIME) and for user authentication.
Novell channel partner	réseau de partenaires Novell	A company that is a Novell Sales Channel Partner and is a member of Novell PartnerNet program.
Novell Channel Partner	Réseau de partenaires Novell	Person who uses Novell.
Novell Client	client Novell	Novell software that provides basic connectivity and access to NetWare network resources for workstations, and that provides the interface between the network and the workstations.  Novell Client software redirects basic computer functions to operate over the network rather than on the desktop. It also provides the interfaces to services that applications use to communicate with the network. Additionally, it provides advanced networking services such as rapid data transfer, file and print management, and access to NDS.
Novell Client for DOS and Windows 3.1x	client Novell pour DOS et Windows 3.1x	Software that connects a DOS workstation or a Windows 3.1x  workstation to a NetWare network. This client software also includes the utilities that configure the way the client works and that optimize the workstation's performance.
Novell Client for Windows 95	client Novell pour Windows 95	Software that connects a Windows 95 workstation to a NetWare network. This client software also includes the utilities that configure the way the client works and that optimize the workstation's performance.
Novell Client for Windows NT	client Novell pour Windows NT	Software that connects a Windows NT workstation to a NetWare network. This client software also includes the utilities that configure the way the client works and that optimize the workstation's performance.
Novell Cluster Services	Services de grappe Novell	A reliable and cost-effective storage area network (SAN) solution that provides customer with virtually uninterrupted access to customer's critical storage resources. It enables customer to combine a number of servers together into a single group, known as a cluster.
Novell communication services	services de communication Novell	
Novell Confidential	Novell - Confidentiel	It refers to all data communicated in confidence.
Novell Consulting	Novell Consulting	Novell Consulting services and solutions combine industry-leading Novell and Novell partner technologies through tested methodologies and custom development. Novell consulting services and solutions range from comprehensive business solutions to technology integration and performance diagnosis and tuning.
Novell consulting services	services Novell Consulting	NCS, a Novell department that provides custom software development, network auditing, network systems design, and distributed application design services.
Novell Consulting Services	services Novell Consulting	NCS - A Novell department that provides custom software development, network auditing, network systems design, and distributed application design services.
Novell Contract Management	Novell Contract Management	Department at Novell, in Provo, USA, that manages all paperwork related to Novell contracts.
Novell corporate partner	réseau de partenaires corporate Novell	A company that is a member of Novell PartnerNet for Corporate Partners. This part of PartnerNet is designed to assist ISV, IHV and Consulting partners, in working with Novell to develop and market integrated solutions, products and services.
Novell Customer Compliance	Novell Customer Compliance	It helps you to maintain compliance to the terms and conditions of your contract with Novell and know what software assets you possess and where they are located.
Novell Customer Connections	Novell Customer Connection	A web page in www.novell.com where the user can find all information related to Novell licensing program.
Novell Customer Satisfaction Survey	Enquête de satisfaction clientèle	Survey of customers satisfaction with Novell.
NOVELL CUSTOMER SHOWCASE	SHOWCASE DES CLIENTS NOVELL	A success story web page title.
Novell Customer Support	Novell Customer Support	The customer can turn to Novell Customer Support in case the customer needs help on problems regarding Novell solutions or products.
Novell delivered application	application fournie par Novell	In ZENworks for Desktops, an application which is delivered to the desktop of a workstation through Novell Application Launcher.
Novell Directory Services	Services Annuaire de Novell	NDS
Novell Distributed Print Services	Services d'impression distribués Novell	NDPS  Print services software that allows network administrators to manage network printing from within NDS. Features include bi-directional feedback, configurable event notification, automatic printer driver download function, protocol independence, and backward compatibility.
Novell Documentation Web Site	site Web de documentation de Novell	Visit the Novell Documentation Web Site
Novell Easy Administration Tool	Outil d'administration facile de Novell (NEAT, Novell Easy Administration Tool)	NEAT, an administrative utility that allows a network administrator of a NetWare for Small Business network to perform two primary categories of tasks: - Adding, deleting, or renaming objects users, groups, printers, applications in the NDS database. - Modifying or editing properties associated with those objects. End users can use NEAT for certain tasks, such as editing their login scripts, if the network administrator gives them rights.
Novell Easy Administration Tool (NEAT)	Outil d'administration facile de Novell (NEAT)	Novell Easy Administration Tool An administrative utility that allows a network administrator of a NetWare for Small Business network to perform two primary categories of tasks: ? Adding, deleting, or renaming objects (users, groups, printers, applications) in the NDS database. ? Modifying or editing properties associated with those objects. End users can use NEAT for certain tasks, such as editing their login scripts, if the network administrator gives them rights.
Novell Education	Novell Education	Novell Education offers comprehensive training on Novell products and solutions.
Novell Education Hotline	Hot Line Novell Education	Telephone hotline of the Novell Education department customers can call for information about Novell Education programs.
Novell Electronic License	licence électronique Novell	Novell’s eLicense. A license that customers can receive electronically via the Internet.
Novell eProvisioning solution	solution Novell eProvisioning	The provisioning solution from Novell and Novell partners that uses the identity of your employees, customers, suppliers, and partners to securely provide them access to content and resources, allowing you to automate your business processes through the Internet.
Novell exteNd	Novell exteNd	Open, standards-based Web services give you the power to unify your technology environment and the freedom to create more effective business solutions for your customers, partners, and employees. Novell exteNd makes the process of developing these Web-based applications fast, simple, and cost-effective.
Novell exteNd Application Server	serveur d'applications Novell exteNd	Novell exteNd Application Server provides the most complete foundation for building and deploying cross-platform, high performance, standards-based applications. exteNd Workbench, jBroker Web, jBroker MQ, and jBroker ORB are included with the application server to provide you with the tools and infrastructure you need to build enterprise applications. Novell's commitment to J2EE and Web Services starts with our involvement in the development of standards and results in your flexible, portable, future-proof applications.
Novell exteNd Composer	Novell exteNd Composer	Software that can single-handedly help you create and deploy a complete integration solution for your organization.
Novell exteNd Director	Novell exteNd Director	Novell exteNd Director is an interaction, portal server that enables IT organizations to rapidly deliver and easily maintain rich, personalized Web applications.
Novell exteNd Web application development suite	suite pour le développement d'applications Web Novell exteNd	Suite of Novell exteNd products for developing Web services and J2EE applications.
Novell Finance	Novell Finance	Novell department handling all finances.
Novell Forge	Novell Forge	Novell Forge is a place where developers can form communities to share ideas, experiences, news, documentation, tips, source code and configuration files about their individual projects within a secure environment.
Novell GroupWise WebPublisher	Novell GroupWise WebPublisher	An optional extension to GroupWise WebAccess. GroupWise WebPublisher lets GroupWise users publish documents from a GroupWise library to the Web. GroupWise WebPublisher is designed to provide public access to GroupWise library documents.
Novell iChain	Novell iChain	Proxy-based web security appliance.
Novell Identity Provisioning for PeopleSoft	Novell Identity Provisioning pour PeopleSoft	Novell specific term. Providing an identity to a user for working with PeopleSoft applications.
Novell Installation Services	services d'installation Novell	A common utility for installation of NetWare products. It allows each software component or component group to be separately installed. Also referred to as "Novell Installation Service".
Novell International Cryptographic Infrastructure	Novell International Cryptographic Infrastructure	Novell® International Cryptography Infrastructure (NICI) Novell's solution to a cross-platform, policy-driven, independently certified, and extensible cryptography service. NICI is the cryptography module that provides keys, algorithms, various key storage and usage mechanisms, and a large-scale key management system.
Novell Internet Connection Expert (NICE)	Expert de la connexion Internet de Novell	connect easily to Internet service providers with novell internet connection expert (NICE)
Novell is a registered trademark	Novell est une marque déposée	In Novell user assistance, license agreements, and other materials, a phrase used to refer to the intellectual and property rights of a product.
Novell Labs	Novell Labs	A Novell agency that works with manufacturers to test and certify hardware and software components designed to interoperate with the NetWare operating system. Novell Labs acts as a technical advisor to Yes Partners who need assistance designing products that are optimized for NetWare. The technical center of the Yes Program, Novell Labs tests more than 4,000 products per year for compatibility with NetWare.
Novell Licensing Services	Services de licence Novell	NLS  A distributed, enterprise network service that enables administrators to monitor and control the use of licensed applications on the network.  NLS also provides a basic license metering tool and libraries that export licensing service functionality to developers of other licensing systems.
Novell Marks	Marques Novell	It refers to all marks belonging to Novell.
Novell Modular Authentication Service (NMAS)	Novell Modular Authentication Service	Novell Modular Authentication Service (NMAS) accesses Novell Directory Services eDirectory (eDirectory) as a single point of administration and management for an expanded set of login methods. The NMAS methods provide support for multiple login methods such as face recognition, fingerprints, voice recognition, signature, iris recognition, certificates, tokens, smart cards, and passwords.
Novell Native File Access	Novell Native File Access	Short for "Novell Native File Access Pack."
Novell Native File Access Pack	Novell Native File Access Pack	A server-based solution that enables users on Windows, Macintosh and Unix operating systems to access storage on NetWare 5.1 and NetWare 6 servers without installing special client software on each workstation.
Novell NetStorage	Novell NetStorage	Novell NetStorage is a feature of NetWare 6 that provides simple Internet-based access to file storage. NetStorage is a Net services software solution that is a bridge between a company's protected Novell network and the Internet. It gives users secure file access from any Internet location, with nothing to download or install on the user's workstation.
Novell Ngage	Novell Ngage	Delivers comprehensive worldwide consulting and support services that apply Novell business solutions to real business situations.
Novell Nsure	Novell Nsure	Provides a secure identity management framework that gives people access to all the tools and resources they need—inside or outside your organization—based on business roles, responsibilities, and relationships.
Novell Nsure Audit Management	Novell Nsure Audit Management	It is a secure logging and auditing product that helps you reduce your organization's liability and risk by ensuring compliance with governmental regulations and business-driven security policies.
Novell Nsure Identity Manager	Novell Nsure Identity Manager	Novell Nsure Identity Manager (formerly known as DirXML) helps businesses or organizations to securely manage the access needs of an ever-changing user community, managing the full user lifecycle—deliver first-day access to essential resources, synchronize multiple passwords into a single login, modify or revoke access rights instantly and even support compliance with government regulations. Nsure Identity Manager also provides self-service features that enable users to maintain their own passwords and profile information.
Novell Nterprise	Novell Nterprise	Offers innovative cross-platform network and collaboration services that enhance and unify all the pieces of your IT infrastructure.
Novell OEM partner	partenaire OEM de Novell	Original Equipment Manufacturers who have formed partnerships with Novell to provide sales and support services for NetWare networks. They often install NetWare into hardware at the factory and adapt and incorporate Novells technologies into theirs.
Novell Platinum Reseller	distributeur Novell Platinum	Reseller of Novell Platinum
Novell Portal Module	Novell Portal Module	Portal module is a combination of files used to administrate the iManager portal.
Novell Portal Services	Novell Portal Services	Novell product that provides a software framework for creating and deploying enterprise portals.
Novell Practicum	Novell Practicum	The Novell Practicum requires IT professionals to prove their directory-related, problem-solving capabilities beyond question by passing tough written and hands-on laboratory evaluations. See also Certified Directory Engineer.
Novell Premium Services	Novell Premium Services	A program that provide faster, more personalized support to customers.
Novell product	produit Novell	Product from Novell
Novell Registry Editor	éditeur de registre Novell	
Novell Replication Services	Novell Replication Services	It allows the network administrator to selectively replicate NetWare file system objects (volumes, directories, files, trustees, IRFs, and name space entries) from one server to any number of other servers in the same NDS tree.
Novell Reseller	distributeur Novell	A person or company authorized to sell NetWare products.
Novell Resource Center	Centre de ressources Novell	A Novell internal web application designed to help users to profile, organize, share, and search Novell content.
Novell Resource Management	Novell Resource Management	A services and technology solution powered by Novell ZENworks, the complete and integrated resource management tool set that automates IT management processes throughout the lifecycle of desktops, laptops, servers and handhelds. A Novell Nterprise solution, ZENworks is the technology foundation for Novell Resource Management, allowing customers to cost-effectively consolidate management of diverse IT resources using directory-based identities and policies.
Novell SecretStore Service	service Novell SecretStore	SSS.NLM—The Single Sign-on service, also known as the Novell SecretStore service.
Novell Secure Identity Management (SIM)	Novell Secure Identity Management (SIM)	Novell specific term. Managing the identities of users in a secure way so that tampering with the network from outside (or from the inside, for that matter) is effectively avoided.
Novell Secure Partner Portal	Novell Secure Partner Portal	Novell specific term. Secure portal application for Novell partners.
Novell SecureLogin	Novell SecureLogin	Novell specific term. Logging in to a network etc. securely with a single sign-on approach.
Novell Services for Linux	Novell Services pour Linux	Name of a course about Novell services that currently run on Linux
Novell Servlet Gateway	passerelle du servlet Novell	4.6 Configuring WebAccess to Use a Java Servlet Engine Other than the Novell Servlet Gateway
Novell Single Sign-on Identity Device	Périphérique d'identification Novell Single Sign-on	
Novell Single Sign-on Identity Library	Bibliothèque d'identités Novell Single Sign-on	
Novell Single Sign-on Service	service Novell Single Sign-on	SSS.NLM—The Single Sign-on service, also known as the Novell SecretStore service.
Novell Single Sign-On Snapins for ConsoleOne	snap-ins Novell Single Sign-on pour ConsoleOne	ConsoleOne snap-in—Enables you to create, configure, and administer NSSO objects in NDS.
Novell Small Business	Novell Small Business	a.k.a. NSBS - Product Name
Novell Small Business Suite	Novell Small Business Suite	A Novell solutions program for small businesses
Novell Small Business Suite Starter Pack	Novell Small Business Suite Starter Pack	Starter pack of Novell networking solutions being offered to small businesses free of charge.
Novell Software License Agreement	Accord de Licence de Logiciel Novell	It is a legal agreement between an entity or a person and Novell, Inc.
Novell Software Subscription Program	programme de location de logiciels Novell	Program that offers Novell customers the opportunity to costeffectively "subscribe" to, or rent, non-perpetual licenses of Novell software on an annual basis. Customers account and pay for licenses annually based on the number of Authorized Users accessing the software and have access to the most-current versions of the Novell software to which they subscribe.
Novell Solution Selling Model	Modèle de vente de solutions Novell	Novell specific term, describes Model for selling solutions.
Novell Storage Services (NSS)	Novell Storage Services (NSS)	With NSS you can easily move and manage directories and volumes of data, including Macintosh files with complex filenames.
Novell Technical Support	Support technique de Novell	NTS  A Novell department made up of customer service representatives and support engineers who are trained to provide quality service to end users and to independent service providers who have problems that could not be solved through regular channels.
Novell Technical Support Internship Program	Novell Technical Support Internship Program (équivalent de Business Expert en EMEA)	Support education benefit to Premier and Platinum partners. (for EMEA, this corresponds to Business Expert)
Novell trademark	marque de Novell	* Novell trademark. ** Third-party trademark. See <a href="legal.html">Legal Notices</a>.
Novell Upgrade Wizard	Assistant de mise à niveau Novell	In NetWare 5.x, a utility that helps you copy the files and objects from an existing server running NetWare to another server running a later version of NetWare. See also "Migration Wizard."
Novell Web Search	Novell Web Search	NetWare 5.1 component that facilitates the creation of an enterprise-wide index of intranet information. It lets enterprises organize distributed information spanning multiple servers, and file types into a mission-critical knowledge base.
Novell Web Services page	page des services Web de Novell	A web page that includes links for GroupWise WebAccess and GroupWise WebPublisher (provided both are installed). Novell Web Services page is created by the installation program.
Novell ZENworks for Handhelds	Novell ZENworks for Handhelds	ZENworks for Handhelds provides a central point of administration for handheld management functions including software inventory, hardware inventory and software distribution.
Novell ZENworks for Servers	Novell ZENworks for Servers	ZfS. An integrated system for managing multiple servers throughout a multiple-platform, enterprise-wide network. It provides server consistency across Windows, Linux, Solaris and NetWare platforms.
Novell, Inc. is the leading provider of information solutions	Novell, Inc. est le leader mondial des solutions informatiques	Official message utilize in Novell's e-mail Signatures, and Elevator Pitch
Novell’s Customer Response Center	Centre d'assistance clients (Customer Response Center) de Novell	Center for Novell Customer Services
Novell® iManager 2.0	Novell® iManager 2.0	Novell iManager allows customers to manage the directory from a Web browser and a variety of handheld devices. It is a web-based eDirectory administration tool.
NovellScript	NovellScript	NovellScript and the Universal Component System are key features that will provide the ability to open up the Web Development environment. UCS developers will be able to leverage Novell Components as well as remote components and Services on NT. A key feature of NovellScript and UCS are its ability to emulate the same program interfaces that the leading web development tools are designed for-namely ActiveX, Active Server Pages, Active Data Objects etc. By supporting the FrontPage development environment NovellScript will provide a possible migration path for applications written on NT that want to integrate with NDS and other services.
Nsure Integration Modules	modules d'intégration Nsure	They are drivers provided through Novell consulting services, and/or third-party.
Nterprise Branch Office	Nterprise Branch Office	Branch office of Nterprise
Nterprise Linux Services	Nterprise Linux Services	Delivers core services such as file, print, messaging, directory and management services as an integrated package running and supported on the SuSE and Red Hat Linux distributions.
null key	clé nulle	A key field that can be a user-defined character. Btrieve allows two types of null keys: any-segment called a manual key in earlier versions of Btrieve and all-segment simply called a null key in earlier Btrieve versions. An any-segment null key does not include a particular record in the index if the value of any key segment of that record matches the null value. An all-segment null key only excludes a particular record from the index if the value of all key segment of that record matches the null value.
null pointer	pointeur nul	
NUT	NUT	An interface for NetWare Loadable Modules (NLMs) in NetWare 3.x that must be loaded on NetWare 3.x servers in order for some NLMs to operate.
obituary	notice nécrologique	A Novell Directory Services schema attribute used to avoid name collisions during certain operations.  Obituaries provide a unique identification, other than the object name, that may be required in order to resolve certain functions. In a distributed database, each server receives updated information through synchronization. Because the servers do not receive NDS updates simultaneously, the server might not hold the same information at a given time. For this reason, each server holds on to the old information until all the other servers receive the updates. NDS uses obituaries to keep track of such information. More detailed information is provided TID 10013126 on the Novell Support web site.
object	objet	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE),  1) Any related group of objects.  2) In Application Builder, any of the defined elements?windows, panes, or controls?used in building a user interface. Application Builder objects are represented by icons on the object palettes of the primary window; they become interface objects once they are dragged and dropped. An Application Builder object is composed of one or more widgets.  3) In the OSF/Motif Style Guide, an element that visually represents something that has behavior and contents not revealed solely by the visual representation. Objects are often represented as icons, but could be represented in other ways as well; for example, as list items.
object	objet	Short for "abstract object."   In SNMP, one integral set of information.   An object can be single (a single-instance object), or can occur several times with different data representing different real-world items (a multiple-instance object). For example, a table of system management contacts is a multiple-instance object. Each contact is an instance of the table.
object	objet	Any line, symbol, geometric shape, bitmap image, chart, graph, or other item that you can select or manipulate in some manner. For example, in WordPerfect Presentations, an item you can draw using one of the drawing tools.
object cache	cache d'objets	In NetWare, a special purpose memory allocator. It is intended to increase performance by paying memory initialization costs one time.
object class	classe d'objet	The structure that the network administrator chooses and provides with data in order to create an NDS object. The types of object classes are the same as the names of the objects themselves. For example, User, Organization, Server, etc.
object create	création d'objet	An XML based rule that describes the criteria for determining whether all of the requirements have been satisfied before creating an object in either eDirectory (publisher channel) or the application (subscriber channel). An XSLT stylesheet may be substituted or referenced in order to support more complex creation criteria.
object ID	ID d'objet	An assigned name that specifies, using a series of integers, the place of an SNMP object in the SNMP global naming tree. Every object ID is unique throughout the entire tree.
object matching	concordance d'objets	An XML based rule that describes the criteria for determining a unique match between objects in eDirectory and the application. An XSLT stylesheet may be substituted or referenced in order to support more complex matching criteria.
object placement	placement d'objet	An XML based rule that describes the criteria for determining the placement of newly created objects in either eDirectory (publisher channel) or the application (subscriber channel). An XSLT stylesheet may be substituted or referenced in order to support more complex placement criteria.
object property	propriété de l'objet	A property that identifies categories of information associated with an object.
object request broker	courtier de requêtes d'objets	ORB, a component in the CORBA programming model that acts as the middleware between clients and servers. In the CORBA object-based computing model, a client can request a service without knowing anything about what servers are attached to the network. The various ORBs receive the requests, forward them to the appropriate servers, and then hand the results back to the client. Novell has its own ORB.
object scheme	modèle d'objet	Object schemes are the basic layout building block of Novell® Portal Services. An object scheme represents a single page of portal content. If a gadget is assigned to an object scheme, it means that its content will be displayed and available to browser user when the user views that object scheme.
object scheme selector	zone de sélection du modèle d'objet	Mechanism in the branding area of the portal that allows the user to select the object scheme page to display in the inheritable area at a given time. Sometimes called inheritable area selector. May be in a variety of formats: tabbed, down the side, etc.
object selector	sélecteur d'objet	A dialog in ConsoleOne (and NetWare Administrator) from which the user/administrator can browse to and select an object in the NDS tree.
object trustee	ayant droit d'objet	An eDirectory object that is given access to the ACL of another object. After an eDirectory object is placed in the ACL of another object, it can manipulate that object. These trustees can also access or change information stored in the object properties. Object trustees are used to implement security in eDirectory. The assignment of rights involves a trustee and a target object. The trustee represents the user or set of users receiving the authority. The target represents those network resources the users have authority over.
object trustees	ayants droit de l'objet	Short for "Object Trustees property."
occupant	titulaire	A role fulfilled by a User object. The User object that is listed in an Organizational Role container object is said to be the Occupant of the Organizational Role.
octet	octet	1. A sequence of 8 bits. In other words, an octet is an 8-bit byte.  -  2. One of fhe four numbers making up an IP address. Octets values can range from 0 to 255.
odd parity	parité impaire	Error detection method requiring an odd number of ones in each byte.
offline	hors ligne	A state by which a machine, a user, or a device is disconnected or not plug-in.
off-site server	serveur hors ligne	
offspring count	nombre de sous-répertoires et de fichiers d'un répertoire	The number of subdirectories and files in a directory.
Old RDN	Ancien RDN	An obituary type that designates an object whose Relative Distinguished Name (RDN) has been changed. This obituary is assigned to the renamed object that has the new RDN.
on the fly	à la volée	An idiom that connotes being on the run, in a hurry, on the spur of the moment, while at the same time being very busy or continuously active. Tasks performed on the fly are often done while other processes are active.
on-demand call	appel sur demande	A type of call that is activated by the presence of data traffic directed to or through the remote peer system.
on-demand connection	connexion sur demande	A method of connecting to a remote system that enables occasional instead of permanent access, thereby saving connection expense and maximizing the use of network resources. This type of connection uses static routing information to advertise the presence of exterior networks, although no route currently exists.
one Net	one Net (un seul et unique réseau)	Novell's vision is to create software solutions that bring all kinds of networks - intranets, extranets, and the Internet; corporate and private; wired to wireless - together as one Net.
one Net management services	services de gestion réseau unique (one Net)	Services for managing "the" single network.
one time password	mot de passe à usage unique	(OTP) A security system that requires a new password every time a user authenticates themselves, thus protecting against an intruder replaying an intercepted password. OTP generates passwords using either the MD4 or MD5 hashing algorithm (Source: TheFreeDictionary.com
one-to-many administration	administration "One to Many"	One person can control many desktops from one location.
one-to-many application distribution	distribution d'applications "One to Many"	Distributing (i.e., installing) an application to a number of users by just one administrator.
one-way synchronization	synchronisation unidirectionnelle	
ongoing activity	activité continue	
online	en ligne	Use as synonym to being connected or on-line
on-line	en ligne	
Online Documentation	documentation en ligne	To access the online documentation for this and other Novell products, and to get updates, see www.novell.com/documentation.
Online GroupWise system	système GroupWise en ligne	The GroupWise mail system located on your network.
online help	aide en ligne	1. An electronic documentation file formatted according to the requirements of the destination operating system. Help files generally contain short instructions about how to perform certain features. They generally have fewer graphics than printed or electronic books of the same material. Help files reformat as needed to the screen window dimensions, and make heavy use of hypertext linking, pop-up boxes, and so forth. Help files are context-sensitive, which means that you can jump to a specific topic within the help file directly from the application's dialog and menu interface, etc.  2. A feature that provides a convenient means of accessing information about NetWare functions and concepts from any workstation on the network.
on-screen instructions	instructions qui s'affichent à l'écran	Follow the on-screen instructions.
OOoo	OOoo	Short for OpenOffice. The desktop open source application from Sun.
opcode	opcode	Short for operation code
Open computing	informatique ouverte	A general and inclusive term that is used to describe a philosophy of building IT systems. In hardware, open computing manifests itself in the standardization of plug and card interfaces; and in software, through communication and programming interfaces. Open computing allows for considerable flexibility in modular integration of function and vendor independence.
open data-link interface	interface ouverte de liaison de données (ODI, Open Datalink Interface)	ODI, the interface used on NetWare servers to support multiple network boards as well as multiple protocol stacks, such as TCP/IP, IPX/SPX, or AppleTalk.
open desktop initiative (ODI)	Open Desktop Initiative (ODI)	Novell effort and commitment to migrate its workforce onto Linux desktops
Open Source	Open Source	In general, open source refers to any program whose source code is made available for use or modification as users or other developers see fit. Open Source is a certification mark owned by the Open Source Initiative (OSI). Developers of software that is intended to be freely shared and possibly improved and redistributed by others can use the Open Source trademark if their distribution terms conform to the OSI's Open Source Definition.
open source community	communauté Open Source	Development community in charge of producing a more useful and more bug-free product for everyone, especially because more people will be reviewing the code. Peer review is considered one of the most important safeguards to prevent buggy code, but is often not given enough, if any, attention by software companies.
Open standards	normes ouvertes	Interfaces or formats that are openly documented and have been accepted in the industry through either formal or de facto processes, and which are freely available for adoption by the industry. In the context of this article the term will be used to specifically refer to software interfaces. Examples that many people are familiar with include HTTP, HTML, WAP, TCP/IP, VoiceXML, XML, and SQL. They are typically built by software engineers from various IT/software companies who collaborate under the auspices of organizations such as W3C, OASIS, OMA, and IETF.
operating system	système d'exploitation	The master control program that runs the computer. The first program loaded when the computer is turned on, its main part, the "kernel," resides in memory at all times. The operating system sets the standards for all application programs that run in the computer.
Operating System	système d'exploitation	The master control program that runs the computer. The first program loaded when the computer is turned on, its main part, the "kernel," resides in memory at all times. The operating system sets the standards for all application programs that run in the computer.
operation	opération	Set the timestamp in the user databases for the following operation:
operational system	système d'exploitation	A system used in operation.
operator	opérateur	In NetWare, a Directory Schema term and selectable property for the Bindery Queue, Computer, NCP Server, Print Server, Printer, and Queue objects in Novell eDirectory.
operator hold	mise en attente par l'opérateur	A hold placed on a print job by a Queue Operator.
optical disc library	bibliothèque de disques optiques	A high-capacity storage device, sometimes called a jukebox, that uses an autochanger mechanism to mount and dismount optical discs as needed.
options file	fichier d'options	You can save your options in an options file, and retrieve them the next time you run Mailbox/Library Maintenance.
organization	organisation	O  Short for "Organization object."
Organization object	objet Organisation	O  A mandatory container object in the NDS tree that represents an organization such as a corporation, university, or operating division. It contains the objects that represent the network users and resources in the actual organization. It must reside either immediately under the root of the tree, or under a Country object.
organizational chart	organigramme	A corporate or office chart containing the list of member or employees and their reporting lines. See eGuide software terminology.
organizational person	personne organisationnelle	A Novell eDirectory leaf object that is one of two subclasses defined in the X.500 standard the other is the Residential Person object. The Organizational Person object defines anyone who either represents or is in some way associated with a particular organization.
organizational role	rôle organisationnel	Short for "Organizational Role object."
Organizational Role object	objet Rôle organisationnel	A leaf object in the NDS tree that represents a position or role, such as Team Leader or Accounting Resources Manager, that can be filled by any designated user. Using it simplifies rights management, because an administrator grants rights to the Organizational Role object. The designated user who fills that role then has those rights.
organizational unit	unité organisationnelle	OU  Short for "Organizational Unit object."
Organizational Unit object	objet Unité organisationnelle	OU object  An optional container object in an NDS tree that represents a unit within an organization, such as a department or business unit. It contains the objects that represent the network users and resources in the actual unit, and must reside either immediately under an Organization object or under another Organizational Unit.
original	original	1. Pertaining to the origin or beginning; preceding all others; first in order. 2. Not copied, imitated, or translated; new; fresh; genuine.
original product	produit d'origine	In Novell's license agreement, the product from which the Customer is upgrading.
originate timestamp	tampon horaire d'origine	This is the time at which the request departed the client for the server, in 64-bit timestamp format.
originator	initiateur	In GroupWise WorkFlow, the person who runs the workflow.
orphan	orphelin	Short for "orphaned partition."
orphaned partition	partition orpheline	
OS	OS	The master control program that runs the computer. The first program loaded when the computer is turned on, its main part, the "kernel," resides in memory at all times. The operating system sets the standards for all application programs that run in the computer.
OSS	OSS (Open Source Software, logiciel libre)	Abreviation for Open Source Software. This is software in which the program source code is openly shared with developers and users. Benefits of OSS are that developers can customize programs, and these innovations, in turn, are shared within the programming community so that everyone learns from each other. OSS is a concept that embraces many hardware platforms and software languages; Linux is one popular example.
OU	OU	Organizational Unit  A Directory Services term for a container object.
out box	boîte Départ	In GroupWise 4.1, the window that displays outgoing messages and text.
out of office	Absent	In the GroupWise client, a Show Appointment level of availability that means the user is not available to be scheduled or paged. Other levels of availability are Free, Busy, and Tentative.
Out Value	valeur de sortie	A value used as output. Also, output value.
outbound	sortant	In GroupWise, an outgoing direction of message file traffic or GroupWise agents communication.
outbound packet	paquet sortant	In NetWare, a packet that is headed away from the server.
outdated file version	version de fichier obsolète	
outgoing	sortant	A category of GroupWise items. Other categories are incoming items, personal items, and draft items
outgoing item	élément sortant	One of GroupWise item categories. The other categories are incoming items, personal items, and draft items.
out-of-sync	désynchronisé	
output	sortie	Data sent by a computer to a peripheral device (such as a console, hard disk, or printer).
output bin	plateau de sortie	A kind of receptacle that holds printed output.
output DOM	DOM en sortie	A DOM (Document Object Model) used as output.
output tray	plateau de sortie	A kind of receptacle that holds printed output.
outstanding request	requête en suspens	A request that is not processed yet.
overflow	déborder	To have an error condition that results when a numeric value is so large that the number cannot fit in the register or field.
overhead	surcharge d'information	In communications, all information, such as control, routing and error-checking characters, that is in addition to user-transmitted data. Includes information that carries network status or operational instructions, network routing information, as well as retransmissions of user-data messages that are received in error.
overhead	overhead	Resources (in computing usually processing time or storage space) consumed for purposes which are incidental to, but necessary to, the main one. Overheads are usually quantifiable "costs" of some kind.  (Please note that this term can have different meanings, so the translation may vary according to the context)   Examples: The overheads in running a business include the cost of heating the building. Keeping a program running all the time eliminates the overhead of loading and initialising it for each transaction. Turning a subroutine into inline code eliminates the call and return time overhead for each execution but introduces space overheads.
overlay install	installation avec support pack intégré	A simultaneous installation of the base product and the support pack
override	remplacer	To set aside or neutralize the action of an event or control, or react in an alternate way to a situation. Eg.: the user can override and therefore cancel a slow classification process in a database by pressing the esc key.
overview	présentation	In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, a Help menu option that displays the Help Viewer containing the home topic to introduce the application.
overwrite	écraser	
owner	propriétaire	A person who owns the resource. An owner makes scheduling and allocation decisions for the owned resources.
owner	propriétaire	A user who creates a file or directory. A file or directory owner does not inherit special access rights in NetWare. If the network administrator has set per-user disk space restrictions, then the file owner is used to identify the user who is charged for the disk space associated with a file or directory.
ownership	possession, propriété	
ownership rights	droits de possession	A collection of entitlements which a person or company may have to the legal title coupled with exclusive legal right to possession.
owning thread	thread propriétaire	
p.o. box	boîte postale	
packet	paquet	A group of bits transmitted as a unit of information on a network. These bits include data and control elements. The control elements include the addresses of the packet's source and destination and, in some cases, error-control information.  In packet-switching networks, a transmission unit of a fixed maximum size that consists of binary digits representing both data and a header.
packet burst	rafale de paquets	A transmission mode that does not require the operating system to wait for verification that a packet has been received before sending the next packet. Both file and print services can use Packet Burst to speed processing of data across the network. Because Packet Burst transfers multiple packets before requiring a response, users are able to send large amounts of data quickly across both LANs and WANs. Packet Burst technology not only greatly speeds the transfer of data across the wire but also reduces network traffic.
packet filtering	filtrage de paquets	It provides a way to precisely define the type of IPX traffic allowed to cross the router.
packet layer	couche de paquets	An X.25 layer that controls call setup and clearing, packet transfer, and network facility selection.
packet receive buffer	tampon de réception de paquets	An area in the NetWare server's memory set aside to temporarily hold arriving data packets.  The packets remain in this buffer until the server is ready to process them and send them to their destination. This ensures the smooth flow of data into the server, even during times of particularly heavy input/output operations.  The number of packet receive buffers is set during server installation. This number is increased by the operating system as needed due to heavy buffer activity.
packet signature	signature de paquet	
packet size	taille de paquet	The size of an incoming or outgoing data packet.
packet switching	commutation de paquets	A data communications process in which messages are broken into finite-sized packets. The message packets are forwarded over different routes. At the other end of the routes, the packets are reassembled into the message, which is then passed on to the receiving terminal or device.
packet-switched network	réseau à commutation de paquets	A group of interconnected, individually controlled computers that use packets to transmit information to each other.
padding	remplissage	In data storage, the addition of one or more bits, usually zeros, to a block of data in order to fill it, to force the actual data bits into a certain position, or to prevent the data from duplicating a bit pattern that has an established meaning.
page description language	langage de description de page	PDL, 1. A collection of commands that control all aspects of reproducing text and graphic images on a printed page. Adobe PostScript is an example of a commonly used PDL. 2. A software language used by printers that defines how text and graphics will appear when printed.
page I/O	E/S de page	In virtual memory (VM) system, the input/output operations with VM pages.
page in count	nombre de pages entrantes	The number of pages that have been brought into the Virtual Memory system from the swap disk space since the last time the server was brought down and back up.
page layout	mise en page	The placement of content on a page.
page out count	nombre de pages sortantes	The number of pages that have been sent to the swap disk space by the Virtual Memory system since the last time the server was brought down and back up.
paging	pagination	An architectural feature that allows NetWare to assign memory noncontiguously. Page tables are used to map physical addresses to logical memory. Each page table entry corresponds to a page in memory. A memory page is a 4 KB block of RAM. A group of page tables is a domain.
Panel	tableau de bord	The name for the Linux equivalent of the Windows Taskbar.
PAP authentication	authentification PAP	Password Authentication Protocol authentication, an inbound call protection method used by Point-to-Point Protocol PPP that enables an exchange of peer ID/password pairs used to validate the calling node. The ID/password pair is compared against a local list of authorized pairs.
parent	parent	A data det that can have subordinate data sets.
parent company	société mère	A company that controls subsidiaries through its ownership of voting stock, as well as runs its own business.
parent container	conteneur parent	A high-level object that holds other objects in the Directory tree. Container objects are used to logically organize other objects in the Directory tree. The three types of (parent) container objects are Country, Organization, and Organizational Unit.
parent directory	répertoire parent	A directory that contains subdirectories and files.
parity	parité	Short for "parity checking." An error-checking system in computer memory and communications that adds noninformation bits to a message to detect any changes in the original bit structure.
parse	analyser	In computers, to parse is to divide a computer language statement into parts that can be made useful for the computer. A parser in a program compiler is a program that takes each program statement that a developer has written and divides it into parts (for example, the main command, options, target objects, their attributes, and so forth) that can then be used for developing further actions or for creating the instructions that form an executable program.
participant	participant	An entity that takes part in a process.
partition	partition	A logical division of the NDS global database. A partition forms a distinct unit of data in the NDS tree that network administrators use to store and replicate NDS information.  Each partition consists of a container object, all objects contained in it, and the data about those objects. Partitions do not include any information about the file system or the directories and files contained there.
partition management	gestion des partitions	The method of managing NDS database partitions and replicas. Partition management divides NDS into partitions and makes and manages various replicas of these partitions.  Partition management allows network administrators to  Create, merge, and move NDS partitions  Display partitions and partition details  Add, delete, synchronize, and display NDS replicas
Partition mode	mode Partition	In ZENworks for Desktops, an imaging mode that allows administrators to create, delete, or activate (make bootable) a partition on the computer.
partition table	table de partitions	In NetWare, a table that lists all server disk partitions.
PartnerNet application process	formulaire d'inscription au programme PartnerNet	PartnerNet online subscription and membership requirements.
partners and suppliers	partenaires et fournisseurs	Partner. A member of a business partnership. Supplier. A company which supplies parts or services to another company.
party	partie	A person or entity involved in an agreement.
pass phrase	phrase secrète	Similar to a password but can be made up of any number of characters, e.g., short sentences with punctuation. Pass phrases can be used for key encryption and offer more security than simple passwords.
passive hub	hub passif	A device used in some network topologies to split a transmission signal, allowing additional workstations to be added. In ARCnet, these are unpowered connecting boxes. Unused ports on passive hubs must be terminated.
Passthrough Authentication (also ''pass-through authentication)	authentification directe	Data/Information/Process which is passed down the steps in the rendering pipeline until it reaches a callback. Such data provides the mechanism whereby an application can communicate information between the app, cull, and draw stages in a pipelined manner without code changes in single-CPU and multiprocessing applications.
password	mot de passe	A combination of characters that allows users to log on to a system or to access a program or file.
password allow change	changement de mot de passe autorisé	Determines whether the person logged in under an account can change the password for that account.
password expiration date and time	date et heure d'expiration du mot de passe	The date and time the object's current password expires
password expiration interval	délai d'expiration du mot de passe	Specifies the time interval after which passwords expire.
password expiration time	date d'expiration du mot de passe	Specifies the next time that a password will expire.
password minimum length	longueur minimale du mot de passe	Establishes the minimum length for an objects clear-text password.
password required	mot de passe requis	Establishes that a password is required for the object to log in.
password seed	valeur de départ du mot de passe	Initial Password value used to create subsequent passwords in the Portal.
password unique required	mot de passe unique requis	Establishes that when an objects password is changed, it must be unique different from those in the Passwords Used attribute.
passwords used	mots de passe utilisés	Specifies old previously used passwords.
path	chemin	A text string that specifies the hierarchical location or address of a file or folder.
pattern deployment	déploiement modélisé	Pattern deployments allow customers to designate the server function and the server will be automatically configured and tuned to that type of server.
pattern stop list	liste des modèles à ignorer	A list of URL patterns that you do not want to have cached. The official way of saying it is Specifying a List of Non-Cacheable URL Patterns.
pause	suspendre	To stop temporarily.
pay-as-you-grow license	licence en fonction de vos besoins	License that gets more expensive as the owner expands his network.
payload	charge utile	1 From the perspective of a network service provider: of a data field, block or stream being processed or transported, the part that represents information useful to the user, as opposed to system overhead information. Payload includes user information and may include such additional information as user-requested network management and accounting information. In Sonet, the STS-1 signal is divided into a transport overhead section and an information payload section similar to signaling and data. 2 The activity carried out by a computer virus when it is activated by a triggering event. Depending on the virus, the payload may be as benign as putting a message on your screen or as destructive as erasing your hard disk or scrambling your data.
peer list	liste des homologues	A list of peer-to-peer network nodes.
peer-to-peer network	réseau poste à poste	1. The simplest peer-to-peer network has two personal computers connected together, each able to use the resources of the other. All machines on a peer-to-peer network are (or can be) equal. No one machine is designated as the main computer?  2. A network consisting of nodes (computers) which all have both client and server capabilities and on which communication and data sharing is carried on directly between nodes, rather than being arbitrated by an intermediary node. On a peer-to-peer network, all nodes run the same peer-to-peer operating system, which gives them both client and server capabilities. Personal NetWare is an example of a peer-to-peer network operating system.
pending	en attente	In the GroupWise client, a message status. In GroupWise administration, a domain operation status. In GroupWise Remote, a request status.
performance test	test des performances	A test which lets you determine the speed at which messages flow through your GroupWise system. To measure performance test messages are sent from a specially configured Monitor domain to target domains anywhere in GroupWise system.
periodic	périodique	A GroupWise Auto-Date function which allows to specify a period length (for example, Recur Every 15 Days).
perishable data	données périssables	Data that will be purged within a certain length of time.
permission	autorisation	
persistent storage	stockage persistant	Permanent data storage, outside of the program space within a computer, for example on a hard disk, CD-ROM, or diskette.
personal	personnel	In GroupWise, there are personal items, personal folders, personal address books, personal distribution lists, personal groups, etc.
personal address book	carnet d'adresses personnel	An address book users can create and administrate or modify themselves.
personal file management	Gestion des fichiers personnels	A NetWare service that lets your users' critical business data securely follow them, no matter where they go or what machine they happen to be using at the time.
personalize	personnaliser	Customize is a suitable synonym.  Within Portal Services, a user has the ability to personalize their page by assigning, changing or removing gadgets.  This is called "Personalizing the Object Scheme".
phase-lock loop	boucle à verrouillage de phase	A mechanism whereby timing information is transferred within a data stream and the receiver derives the signal element timing by locking its local clock source to the received timing information. (Source Network Buyer's Guide). See also PLL
phone message	message téléphonique	One of GroupWise item types. A phone message helps users inform someone of a phone call or visitor. Users can include such information as caller, phone number, company, urgency of the call, and so forth. Phone can't be answered from a phone message.
physical address	adresse physique	The OSI data-link layer address of a network device.
physical connection	connexion physique	A hardware connection between two computer devices.
physical layer	couche Physique	The first of seven layers of the OSI model, the physical layer details the protocols that govern transmission media and signals.  In X.25, the physical layer is the layer of the interface that defines the physical interface between data terminal equipment (DTE) and data circuit-terminating equipment (DCE). It specifies the procedures used to establish, maintain, and release the physical connections or data circuits between network end points.
physical memory	mémoire physique	Any memory that can be physically addressed by the processor.
physical page breakdown	répartition des pages physiques	The distribution of memory pages in the available cache pools.  Out of all the physical pages on the system, some number is in the File System Cache pool, and the rest of them are in the Virtual Memory VM Cache pool.  The Physical Page Breakdown would be the label for the detailed list of how many pages are in each area.
physical partition	partition physique	A hard-disk partion created for the use of the operating system. The hard disk can contain several physical partitions for numerous operating systems.
pie chart	graphique à secteurs	A type of presentation graphic in which percentage values are represented as proportionally-sized slices of a pie.
ping	ping	packet Internet groper, a program used to test the accessibility of destinations by sending them an Internet Control Message Protocol ICMP echo request and waiting for a reply.
pipeline burst cache	cache en mode rafale et adressage pipeline	A type of memory cache built into many modern DRAM controller and chipset designs. Pipeline burst caches use two techniques - a burst mode that pre-fetches memory contents before they are requested, and pipelining so that one memory value can be accessed in the cache at the same time that another memory value is accessed in DRAM. The purpose of pipeline burst caches is to minimize wait states so that memory can be accessed as fast a possible by the microprocessor. Source: webopedia
piping	enchaînement de commandes (piping)	The process where the output from one program is made to be the input for another.
placeholder	marque de réservation	A dummy variable. For example, a variable that doesn't contain any useful data, but it does reserve space that a real variable will use later.
placeholder object	objet Marque de réservation	An object that functions as a placeholder. See also "placeholder."
platform	plate-forme	The underlying hardware or software for a system. The platform can refer to the processor and low-level support chips or to the entire operating system.
Platform Services	services de plate-forme	It means the components of the Software which are installed on the target systems to enable Fan-Out Capability.
platform support module	module de support de plate-forme	
platform-neutral	indépendant de la plate-forme	Not dependent on any specific hardware/software platform.
Platinum Partner	partenaire Platinum	Each Novel Partnering level has its benefits and requirements. This level is capable of providing solutions in partnership with Novell Consulting.
PLL	PLL	Short form for phase-lock loop. See this term.
plug-and-print	technologie plug-and-print	
plug-in	plug-in	A software program installed with or inside another program, designed to add optional functionality.
Plug-in Studio	Plug-in Studio	A program used to create and edit plugin code. Part of the Novell Developer Kit.
plural policy	règle plurielle	A policy type that lets you have multiple policies per policy package. Plural policies are rare. A Scheduled Action is the only plural policy in ZENworks.
POA	POA	Post Office Agent. A POA works on behalf of a post office. It maintains the post office directory store database and handles messaging tasks within the post office.
POA input queue	file d'attente en entrée du POA	A directory where inbound messages are placed for POA.
poEdit	poEdit	Open-source .po file utilities
point-and-click	pointer-cliquer	Term that appears in Education exams asking the student to perform an action.
point-and-click	pointer-cliquer	Enabling a user to select data and activate programs by using a pointing device to move a cursor to a specific location (“point”) and pushing a button on the pointing device (“click”).
point-to-point line	ligne point à point	A switched or nonswitched communication line or circuit that connects a single node in a remote network with another node.
point-to-point link	liaison point à point	A link over the switched or nonswitched communication line or circuit that connects a single node in a remote network with another node.
point-to-point links	liaisons point à point	
Point-to-Point Protocol	protocole point à point	An industry-standard protocol that enables point-to-point transmissions of routed data. The data is sent across transmission facilities between interconnected LANs by using a synchronous or an asynchronous serial interface.
poison pill	pilule empoisonnée	A server eats a "posion pill" in order to commit suicide. What this means is the server will abend - i.e. kill it itself. In a cluster, this is sometimes necessary in rare cases where one server becomes isolated from theothers but still has access to shared resources. The server has to eat a poison pill in order to shutdown without corrupting resources shared by the other servers for example, where both servers could write to the samedisk at the same time. It is also possible for one server to give a posion pill to another one. In this case, the server giving the poison pill will live on and the server eating the pill, will die.
Poison Reverse	Poison Reverse	In a computer network that uses the Routing Information Protocol (RIP) or other distance vector routing protocols, a poison reverse is a way in which a gateway node tells its neighbor gateways that one of the gateways is no longer connected. To do this, the notifying gateway sets the number of hops to the unconnected gateway to a number that indicates "infinite" (meaning "You can't get there"). Since RIP allows up to 15 hops to another gateway, setting the hop count to 16 would mean "infinite."
policy	règle	The rules and regulations set by the organization. Policy determines the type of internal and external information resources employees can access, the kinds of programs they may install on their own computers as well as their authority for reserving network resources.
policy	règle	A ZENworks policy is an NDS object that is created automatically when you choose to create a Policy Package object using NetWare Administrator. Each Policy contains one or more pages where you can specify settings or configurations related to User, Workstation, Group, or Container objects, depending on the type of Policy.
policy based distribution	distribution basée sur des règles	Distributing (ie, installing) a software to the users while taking into account all the policies (rules and regulations) in place for the users or group of users.
policy package	ensemble de règles	An NDS object that contains policies, which are properties in the package object. ZfD policies are grouped into policy packages for ease of administration. You create and manage policy packages using ConsoleOne. Each policy package contains one or more platform-specific tabs that contain one or more policies specific to that platform and package
poll	interroger	To manage the transmission sequence of devices on a shared circuit by sending requests for transmission to each device in turn.
poll(ing) interval	intervalle d'interrogation	1. The time, in seconds, between the transmission of Hello packets to a neighbor that has become inactive. This value is valid only for nonbroadcast, multiaccess networks.  2. The amount of time NetWare for SAA Services Manager waits before collecting trend analysis data.
polled mode	mode interrogé	In NetWare queue-base printing, the default transmission mode for printers. In this mode, the printer port driver (NPRINTER) periodically checks, or polls, its data port to determine whether it's ready to accept data transmission. The port's status is indicated by an electronic signal called a flag. Checks are made at each CPU timer tick (18 per second).
polling	interrogation	Any procedure that periodically checks the status of each device or terminal on the network, noting such things as new data available for processing.
polling loop	boucle d'interrogation	One round in which each and every communication component connected to the computer or controller has been polled once.
pool	réserve	
popup	contextuel	
port	port	The point of contact between two hardware devices or two software elements. A hardware port can be the physical connection point between a printer cable and the computer. A software port, represented by a memory address, can be the logical contact point between a LAN driver and the protocol bound to it, or the point of access to a service on a TCP/IP host computer.
port	porter	To port software is to edit it so that it can be compiled or otherwise run on that platform. This process may be extremely easy, requiring few (if any) tweaks to the code, or it may involve a lengthy and extensive rewrite. It is generally regarded as a sign of good engineering for software to be easily portable.
port handler	gestionnaire de port	An NDPS server component used by the Novell printer gateway to ensure that the Print Device Subsystem can communicate with the printer through hardware ports and legacy methods, including a server's serial and parallel ports (local printers), queue-based printing (QMS), and remote printers (RP mode).
portal	portail	
portal configuration object	objet Configuration du portail	The Portal Configuration Object (PCO) is an object in the LDAP tree that represents the portal.
portal group	groupe de portail	A portal group is a special directory object that allows you to define a search filter to distribute portal content to users across multiple containers.
portal head	serveur de portail	An instance of a portal on a Web server or the Web server representing the portal location. A portal can be configured to have multiple portal heads, i.e., to be accessed via more than one Web server.
portal server	serveur Portal	A server that is running the NetWare Management Portal is called a Portal Server, as opposed to the other servers on the network, those that are not running Portal.  Non-Portal servers appear as "NetWare Servers" in the Portal interface.
Portal Services	Portal Services	Novell product
post	publier	In GroupWise, to place a mail-message, appointment, task, or reminder note directly in a personal folder, shared folder, or calendar instead of sending it through E-mail. The respective view (mail-message, appointment, etc.) displays a Post button.
post office	bureau de poste	The post office is a collection of objects and mailboxes. The post office maintains the post office objects, a current address book (directory), and the message and document stores.
Post Office Agent	agent de bureau de poste	POA. A Post Office Agent works on behalf of a post office. It maintains the post office directory store database and handles messaging tasks within the post office.
post-bind command	commande post-bind	A command that needs to be executed after binding the virtual driver to physical drivers and before binding IP to the virtual driver with an IP address so as to expose the virtual driver to IP address
posted appointment	rendez-vous publié	An appointment that has been placed directly in a personal folder, shared folder, or calendar instead of being sent through e-mail.
posted item	élément publié	In GroupWise 5.5 and above, a mail message, appointment, task, or reminder note that has been placed directly in a personal folder, shared folder, or calendar instead of being sent through e-mail. Called a "discussion item" in GroupWise 5.0, 5.1, and 5.2.
post-login method	méthode de post-login	A security process that is executed after a user has authenticated to NDS. For example, one post-login method is the Workstation Access method that requires the user to provide credentials in order to access the computer after the workstation is locked.
postmaster	receveur des postes	In NetWare MHS, a user who has all of the following rights:  ? Supervisor access to the NetWare MHS Messaging Server object  ? Supervisor access to the Mailbox Location, Mailbox ID, and E-mail Address properties of users of the NetWare MHS messaging server  ? Read access to the Message Routing Group that includes the NetWare MHS messaging server
postmaster general	receveur général des postes	In NetWare MHS, a user who has Supervisor access to the Message Routing Group that he or she resides in. A Postmaster General can add a messaging server to, or remove a messaging server from, the Message Routing Group.  Several Postmasters General can be assigned to a Message Routing Group.
Preboot Execution Environment	environnement PXE	The Preboot Execution Environment (PXE) is an industry standard client/server interface that allows networked computers that are not yet loaded with an operating system to be configured and booted remotely by an administrator. The PXE code is typically delivered with a new computer on a read-only memory chip or boot disk that allows the computer (a client) to communicate with the network server so that the client machine can be remotely configured and its operating system can be remotely booted.
Preboot Services	services de pré-lancement (Preboot Services)	A Zen for Desktops 3.2 service which utilizes the Preboot Execution Environment (PXE) and allows you to put an image on a workstation even if the workstation's hard disk is blank.
preemption	préemption	An operating system scheduling technique that allows the operating system to take control of the processor at any instant, regardless of the state of the currently running application. Preemption guarantees better response to the user and higher data throughput. Most operating systems are not preemptive multitasking, meaning that task-switching occurs asynchronously and only when an executing task relinquishes control of the processor.
preferences	préférences	GroupWise System Preferences
preloaded data	données préchargées	
Pre-Migration	pré-migration	In NetWare 6.x, one of server installation types. A Pre-Migration server is used to migrate data from one server to another using the NetWare Migration Wizard.
prepared statement	instruction préparée	A statement prepared in a cache memory so that the command can be reused when the same command is executed multiple times.
Pre-release Quality	Qualité de la Version préliminaire	Software of pre-release quality that should be used only in a testing environment as it has not been fully tested and may contain errors and omissions.
press release	communiqué de presse	An announcement of an event, performance, or other newsworthy item that is issued to the press.
press room	presse	A place (in IT terminology, most likely customized webpage) with informations related to press.
pricing	prix	A link on/to the product information page.
primary domain	domaine primaire	The first domain created in GroupWise system.
primary server	serveur primaire	The SFT III NetWare server that has been operating longer than its partner and is currently servicing workstations. The primary server handles workstation requests for network services. It also handles routing packets from routers on the internetwork.  If the primary server fails, the secondary server becomes the new primary server.
prime customer	client principal	In MLA Premium Service (technical support) agreement, a customer who acts as a collective entity for all locations eligible to order services under the given MLA Premium Service agreement.
primitive	primitive	
principal	principal	In Kerberos, a principal is a unique entity (a user or service) to which a ticket can be assigned. A principal consists of the following components: primary — the first part of the principal, which can be the same as your user name in the case of a user. (source: http://www-uxsup.csx.cam.ac.uk/suse/adminguide/ch19s03.html) instance — some optional information characterizing the primary. This string is separated from the primary by a /. realm — this specifies your Kerberos realm. Normally, your realm is your domain name in uppercase letters.
print device subsystem	sous-système de périphériques d'impression (PDS)	PDS  An NDPS server component used by the Novell printer gateway, first to retrieve printer-specific information by reading Page Description Language (PDL), and second, to store it in a database. The PDS is used when creating a Printer Agent to represent a printer that either is not connected directly to the network (a local or remote printer), or is directly connected to the network but either its manufacturer does not provide a proprietary NDPS gateway or it is running in PSERVER mode.
print header	en-tête d'impression	In NetWare queue-based printing, an administrator-set number of bytes preceding the print job file. The header consists of the control codes for the modes defined in PRINTDEF. The control codes are transported to the queue in two parts of the print job file, the print header and the print tail. This is especially critical for PostScript printing.
print job	travail d'impression	In NetWare queue-based printing, a file stored in a print queue directory. As soon as a print server sends a print job to the printer, the print job is deleted from the queue directory.
print job configuration	configuration du travail d'impression	A predefined set of options that a user can apply to a print job. It frees the user from having to specify each option setting when using print utilities such as NPRINT and CAPTURE. The characteristics can include the following:  Printer to be used  Print queue to be used  Number of copies to print  Use of a banner page  Printer form  Print device mode  Users can create print job configurations using NetWare Administrator or PRINTCON.
print queue	file d'attente d'impression	A sequence of print job requests stored and waiting to be processed.
print queue directory	répertoire de files d'attente d'impression	A network directory that stores print jobs.
print queue object	objet File d'attente d'impression	A leaf object in the NDS tree that represents a print queue that stores print jobs sent from workstations. All print queues reside in the Queues directory at the root of a NetWare volume.
print queue operator	opérateur de la file d'attente d'impression	In NetWare queue-based printing, a user who has the rights to edit other users' print jobs, delete print jobs from the print queue, or modify the print queue status by changing the operator flags. Print queue operators can also change the order in which print jobs are serviced.
print server	serveur d'impression	In NetWare queue-based printing, a server that monitors print queues and printers. The print server takes waiting print jobs out of a print queue and sends them to a network printer.
print server	serveur d'impression	In NetWare queue-based printing, a server that monitors print queues and printers. The print server takes waiting print jobs out of a print queue and sends them to a network printer.
Print Server object	objet Serveur d'impression	A leaf object in the NDS tree that represents a network print server that monitors print queues and printers. The Print Server object contains information about the print server it represents, including a list of printers that it serves.
print server operator	opérateur du serveur d'impression	In NetWare queue-based printing, a user or member of a group delegated rights by user ADMIN to manage the print server.  A print server operator has rights to control notify lists, printers, and queue assignments.
print services	services d'impression	
print tail	données de fin d'impression	In NetWare queue-based printing, an administrator-set number of bytes at the end of the print job file. The print tail consists of control codes for the modes defined in PRINTDEF. The control codes are transported to the queue in two parts of the print job file, the print header and the print tail. This is especially critical for PostScript printing.
printer	imprimante	A computer device used to produce printed material.
printer agent	agent d'impression	A logical entity that represents an NDPS printer, combining the functions previously performed by a printer, print queue, print server, and spooler into one intelligent and simplified entity. Before a printer can be incorporated into an NDPS printing environment, it must be represented by a Printer Agent.
printer configuration	configuration de l'imprimante	
printer control language	langage PCL (Printer Control Language)	PCL, a Page Description Language PDL used by Hewlett-Packard LaserJet printers and compatibles.
printer friendly	version imprimable	A link on the web page.
printer friendly	version imprimable	A version of online or displayed document that is better suited for printing.
printer object	objet Imprimante	In the NDS tree, a leaf object that represents a physical print device in the network, such as a printer or plotter. Each network printer requires a NetWare printer driver, such as nprinter.exe or nprinter.nlm, to service network print jobs.
printer queue status	état de la file d'attente d'impression	The status of the print queue. See "Print Queue."
priority	priorité	In the GroupWise client, the priority of a message. Priority settings affect the delivery of a message. High priority messages are delivered before standard and low priority messages.
priority	priorité	In OSPF and NLSP, a value that is used by routers to determine which router is the Designated Router (DR).
priority queue	file d'attente prioritaire	A directory in GroupWise agent's directory structure where messages are placed for subsequent handling based on their priorities.
privacy	confidentialité	The authorized distribution of information (who has a right to know?). Although always a concern when users pass confidential information to vendors by phone, mail or fax, the Internet has brought this issue to the forefront. Web sites often have privacy policies that stipulate exactly what will be done with the information you enter. Contrast with security, which deals with unauthorized access to data.
privacy	confidentialité	The quality or condition of being secluded from the presence or view of others.
private	privé	GroupWise item attribute used to prevent unauthorized proxies from accessing the item.
private address	adresse privée	An unregistered IP address that is either allocated from RFC 1918 or is selected randomly by a user.
private key	clé privée	An encrypted mathematical formula that belongs to a subject user, application, or computer and is never revealed to anyone. The subject uses the private key to decrypt messages that it receives, and that are encrypted with the subjects public key. A private key can also encrypt a message digest sent by the subject to anyone else. Using the subjects public key, anyone can decrypt the digest and be assured that the message originated from that subject.
private key	clé privée	In cryptography, a private or secret key is an encryption/decryption key known only to the party or parties that exchange encrypted messages.
privilege level	niveau de privilège	The rank assigned to server memory segments in NetWare v4.0. By running an NLM at a different privilege level than the network operating system OS, you can protect OS memory from the NLM.
proactive approach	approche proactive	Approach that tries to foresee and prevent problems in contrast to a reactive approach which deals with the problems only after they've occurred.
procedure	procédure	
process	traiter	
process	processus	
process a request	traiter une requête	Unable to process request.
processing loop	boucle de traitement	A loop where processes are executed.
processor	processeur	Central processing unit.
product activation credential	référence d'activation du produit	License information for a DirXML driver required to activate the driver. Can be obtained by a product activation request.
product flyer	dépliant produit	A concise marketing article about the product.
product info	info produit	A link on/to the product information page.
product line	gamme de produits	A set of related products sold by a single company.
Product Support	support produit	Service for customers who use Novell products that is provided by Novell in a variety of ways, usually by telephone or email.
production environment	environnement de production	An actual environment where a software runs.
production server	serveur de production	A server used in actual operation.
production use	utilisation en production	A use in actual production.
Productive Workforce – Greater Profitability	Meilleure productivité des utilisateurs	Marketing or marcom to define profitability in relation to a productive workforce.
profile	profil	A type of login script that sets the environment for multiple users in one or more groups. It is a property of a Profile object. Only one profile script is allowed per user.
profile list	liste des profils	
profile login script	script de login de profil	A type of login script that sets environments for a group of users. Network administrators use profile login scripts to manage groups of users with identical login script needs.  Profile login scripts are optional; if used, they execute after the container login script and before the user login script.
profile object	objet Profil	In the NDS tree, a leaf object that provides a login script that executes after the container login script but before the user login script. It provides a common set of login script commands for either of the following:  User objects in different containers  A subset of the User objects in a container
profiling	profilage	Feature that stores the results of a search in a virtual discussion group that is updated periodically.
programming by exception	programmation par exceptions	A programming method based on exception handling.
prohibited file policy	règle de gestion des fichiers interdits	A ZENworks policy used to monitor and enforce the deletion or moving of unauthorized files from a specified volume/drive or directory/folder.
promiscuous mode	mode de promiscuité	A mode in which the hardware on a LAN receives and passes to the upper-layer protocols all packets that arrive.
promotion	promotion	An activity, such as a sale or advertising campaign, designed to increase visibility or sales of a product.
prompt	invite	
property	propriété	Characteristics of objects in Novell eDirectory that holds information about the object. eDirectory requires only those properties entered when a new object is created such as properties that name the object, or properties required to create the object. A property can contain multiple values such as the Telephone Number property, which contains numerous telephone numbers.
property book page	page de propriétés	A page in a multipage dialog that uses a folder-tab metaphor to provide property viewing or editing capability.
property page	page de propriétés	Use this property page to select the WebAccess Agent (gateway) that will process requests for users located in this domain.
property rights	droits de propriété	
property value	valeur de propriété	
proprietary	propriétaire	Used, made, or marketed by one having the exclusive legal right.
proprietary	propriétaire	Interfaces that are developed by and controlled by a given company and have not been made freely available for adoption by the industry. Proprietary software uses non-public interfaces or formats. When an interface is non-public, the owner of the proprietary    interface controls the it, including when and how the interface changes, who can adopt it, and how it is to be adopted.
protected mode	mode protégé	A mode that provides the capability of multitasking running more than one application or process at a time. Protected mode allocates memory to various processes running concurrently so that memory used by one process doesnt overlap memory used by another 
protocol	protocole	A set of rules that network devices must follow in order to communicate. Protocols specify the formatting, timing, sequencing, and error checking of data transmission.
provider	fournisseur	
provision	déploiement	Deploying software, devices, etc. to the users.
provisioning	provisioning	Setting up a telecommunications service for a particular customer. Common carriers provision circuits by programming their computers to switch customer lines into the appropriate networks.
provisioning solutions	solutions de provisioning	Setting up a telecommunications service for a particular customer. Common carriers provision circuits by programming their computers to switch customer lines into the appropriate networks.
proximity reader	lecteur de proximité	A reading device that employs a radio frequency link between the reader and a card to control access. Encoded information is passed between the card and reader, usually supplying a unique pattern enabling identification of the cardholder.
proxy	mandataire	A GroupWise feature that allows a user to have access rights to another users Mailbox and act on behalf of that user.
proxy ***	proxy	Also called a "proxy" or "application level gateway," it is an application that breaks the connection between sender and receiver. All input is forwarded out a different port, closing a straight path between two networks and preventing a cracker from obtaining internal addresses and details of a private network.  Proxy servers are available for common Internet services; for example, an HTTP proxy is used for Web access, and an SMTP proxy is used for e-mail. Proxies generally employ network address translation (NAT), which presents one organization-wide IP address to the Internet. It funnels all user requests to the Internet and fans responses back out to the appropriate users. Proxies may also cache Web pages, so that the next request can be obtained locally. Proxies are only one tool that can be used to build a firewall. See
proxy ARP	proxy ARP	A technique by which a router replies to an Address Resolution Protocol ARP request from a host on behalf of the ARP target host. By faking its identity, the router accepts responsibility for routing packets to the real destination. This allows a site to use a single IP network address for two physical networks. A stub network stub subnetwork is a common use of proxy ARP.
proxy cache	cache proxy	A facility in a proxy server that caches incoming Web pages on the hard disk. If the next page requested by a browser is already in the proxy cache, the page is retrieved locally instead of from the Internet. With proxy caches, the browsers must be configured to use the proxy server. (source: TechWeb
proxy list	liste des mandataires	In the GroupWise client, a list of GroupWise users who have granted you proxy access to their mailboxes.
proxy MIB	MIB proxy	An SNMP MIB module which defines MIB objects which provide mechanisms to remotely configure the parameters used by a proxy forwarding application
proxy server	serveur proxy	A server used as a buffer between two networks.  It is often used as a firewall between an intranet and the Internet, preventing unauthorized inbound traffic and restricting downloading by blocking specific Web sites.  It can also log and report on what sites users are viewing.  In order to speed up downloading, the proxy server may be able to cache frequently-used Web pages locally.
Proxy Server	serveur proxy	In an enterprise that uses the Internet, a Proxy Server is a server that acts as an intermediary between a workstation user and the Internet so that the enterprise can ensure security, administrative control, and caching service. A Proxy Server is associated with or part of a gateway server that separates the enterprise network from the outside network and a firewall server that protects the enterprise network from outside intrusion.
proxy-based security appliance	application de sécurité Web basée sur proxy	Application for ensuring the security of the network, the applications etc. via a proxy server.
pseudo preemption	pseudo préemption	Processes or "threads" that run in the operating system, on a processor CPU, should periodically relinquish control of the processor so that some other thread can run.  This is called "yielding."  A thread or process that doesnt yield often enough is not considered "well-behaved" and in an extreme condition could be labeled a "CPU hog."  A pre-emptive operating system doesnt require threads to yield, because the OS itself will force them to.  The OS will pre-empt the thread.  NetWare, however, is a non-preemptive operating system, so performance can be damaged by a program thread that does not yield control of the CPU often enough.  One way to help minimize that damage is "pseudo preemption," whereby the OS causes a File Read or File Write two very common actions to "block," or periodically yield control to the next waiting thread.
pseudonode	pseudo noeud	A fictitious NetWare Link Services Protocol NLSP router that represents an entire LAN in the link state database. The Designated Router represents the pseudonode for link state packet LSP exchanges.
public access printer	imprimante publique	An NDPS printer available to all network users and not associated with an NDS object. Users can select and print to any public access printer they can view from their workstations. However, these printers have no security, and job event notification is limited.
public address	adresse publique	A registered IP address that is allocated from a globally unique address space. This IP address is usually provided by your Internet Service Provider (ISP).
public certificate	certificat public	You then import the public certificate.
Public directory	répertoire Public	The sys:public directory, created during NetWare installation, that allows general access to the network and contains NetWare utilities and programs for network users.
public file	fichier public	Public files are files for which public access has been granted.
public key	clé publique	An encrypted mathematical formula that belongs to a subject (user, application, or computer) and is revealed to everyone. It is used to encrypt messages that are sent to the subject as well as to verify the signature of the subject. To ensure that the public key really belongs to the subject, it is embedded in a digital certificate.
public key	clé publique	An encrypted mathematical formula that belongs to a subject user, application, or computer and is revealed to everyone. It is used to encrypt messages that are sent to the subject as well as to verify the signature of the subject. To ensure that the public key really belongs to the subject, it is embedded in a digital certificate.
public key certificate	certificat de clé publique	A digital document that verifies that a public key belongs to an individual or entity (such as a server). A public key certificate can prevent unauthorized users from using phony keys to impersonate legitimate users.
public key infrastructure	infrastructure de clés publiques	A technology that enables the use, creation, and management of public keys and digital certificates. One of the major uses of PKI is for secure electronic transactions.
public repository	référentiel public	A distributed system or set of systems used to store certificates and CRLs and to distribute them to the final entities
Public Rights	droits publics	The rights to documents in a library apply to the library as a whole; they are referred to as public rights.
public switched telephone network	réseau téléphonique commuté (RTC)	PSTN, a service provider that offers switched circuit lines, such as switched/56 service, and asynchronous communications. By offering unrestricted access, PSTN makes inbound authentication an important consideration. The United States uses PSTN.
public trustee	ayant droit public	[Public] trustee  A special trustee that can be added to any object, directory, or file. By default, [Public] includes the Read right and the File Scan right. [Public] is used only in trustee assignments and must always be entered within square brackets.
publish	publier	Posting an HTML document to a Web server.
Publish/Subscribe	publier/s'abonner	One of two main messaging paradigms in popular use (the other being Point-to-Point messaging). In  Publish/Subscribe, queues are often called topics. (See below.) They differ from ordinary queues in that  topics are designed to be shared by numerous "listeners," whereas in Point-to-Point messaging a queue is  customarily associated with one receiving app (or at least a small, well-defined number of users). Because  topics are shared, a message is not removed from a topic until every registered listener has received it. Also,  filtering (which in Point-to-Point messaging is done via message selectors) is under administrative control  in Pub/Sub systems, rather than being under the control of receiving apps. Clients that post messages to a  topic are said to be "publishers," while clients that consume those messages are "subscribers."
publisher	éditeur	An organization which publishes.
publisher	canal Éditeur	The channel that receives events from the external application and sends the XML to the DirXMLTM engine. The publisher passes data to eDirectory.
publisher command transformation	objet Transformation de la commande du canal Éditeur	The object containing the definition of transform actions used on commands sent by the driver to the DirXML engine.
pulse dialing	numérotation par impulsions	One of two dialing methods in which telephone numbers are sent as pulses (brief changes in voltage or current intensity) across the telephone line. The other method of dialing is tone. (source: Paradyne glossary)
pure IP	pur IP	An IP implementation in NetWare. It is pure in the sense that it does not retain an IPX-based encapsulation (or, in the case of NT Server, a NetBIOS encapsulation).
purge	purger	To delete files permanently. Files that have been purged cannot be recovered.
Purge attribute	attribut Purger	P, a file system attribute that causes NetWare to purge the directory or file when it is deleted.
push	distribution de données du serveur (push)	Push (or "server-push") is the delivery of information on the Web that is initiated by the information server rather than by the information user or client, as it usually is.
push agent	agent de distribution de données du serveur (push)	A software agent running on a client machine or workstation to enable a server to deliver data to the client. The delivery of the data is initiated by the server (see also "push").
qualifier bit	bit de qualification (Q-bit)	Q-bit, a component of a user packet. The Q-bit determines whether the user data field contains data for the user or high-level control information.
query	interroger	To specify which data you want to retrieve in database files linked to your form. WordPerfect InForms stores data from a query in a report.
query	interrogation	The process of extracting selected data from a database and presenting it for use.
query	requête	An instruction or request to retrieve data from a database.
queue	placer en file d'attente	
queue	file d'attente	A line or list formed by items waiting for service, from which elements can be removed only in the same order in which they were inserted, or in a specified order of priority.  Examples include print jobs waiting to be processed, tasks waiting to be performed, stations waiting for connection, or messages waiting for transmission.
queue directory	répertoire de files d'attente	A network directory that stores print jobs.
quick look	aperçu rapide	A link on/to the product information page.
Quick Start Card	Démarrage rapide	A piece of documentation (in the shape of a booklet or card) containing sets of instructions to quickly set up and/or configure a software or system.
QuickCompress	QuickCompress	A Zen for Desktops 3.2 tool that allows you to compress an image without opening it.
QuickCorrect	outil de correction rapide	A GroupWise feature that provides automatic correction of common spelling errors and mistyped words.
QuickFinder	QuickFinder	In GroupWise, a Novell indexing and searching technology used by the POA to index messages or to index documents stored in post offices.
QuickViewer	Aperçu	A GroupWise client feature used to quickly scan the contents of mailbox items.
radio button	bouton d'option	1. Radio buttons are like radio push buttons. They appear next to mutually exclusive options, which means that only one of a group can be selected. 2. One of a set of buttons found before options in a dialog or group box. Only one radio button in a set can be selected at a time. 3. In a graphical utility, a button used when the utility requires only one of several possible choices to be selected. Radio buttons are round. When selected, a darkened circle appears inside it. 4. A round selection icon found in dialog boxes. Only one radio button in a set can be selected at a time. 5. In the Macintosh operating system interface, a small, round button that appears next to an option in a window or dialog box. Radio buttons are toggle switches; when they are pushed in, the option is turned on. When they are pushed out, the option is turned off. Radio buttons are not mutually exclusive.
RAM disk	disque virtuel	RAM that has been configured to simulate a disk drive. You can access files on a RAM disk as you would access files on a real disk. RAM disks, however, are approximately a thousand times faster than hard disk drives. They are particularly useful, therefore, for applications that require frequent disk accesses. (Source: webopenia)
random device	générateur de nombres aléatoires	A mechanism by which Linux produces random numbers
random drop	suppression aléatoire de connexions	When a TCP/IP host receives a request to establish a connection,  it comes in the form of a packet containing a SYN flag, which causes an acknowledgment to be sent back to the requestor. Meanwhile, the information from the packet is saved in a buffer, where it waits for a second packet from the requestor, which would complete the handshake needed for establishing a session. If a host is deluged with SYN packets with random source addresses, the buffer overloads, and requests to establish legitimate sessions are blocked.  A technique called random drop can help. When the queue fills up with half-open connections, it starts randomly dropping some of the half-open connections to free up the queue. Another technique is called drop oldest.  I believe in Novells case we are allowing the user to set parameters governing the criteria that will initiate random dropping.
range	plage	A set of coordinates for multiple cells in a table or spreadsheet.
rapid application development	développement rapide d'applications	(RAD). A way of developing a system by completing a working part, implementing it, and adding more working parts every few months, instead of waiting to finish the entire project before putting the system into use. Otherwise, changes take place so fast in the computer industry that an application can be obsolete by the time it is implemented. Development tools such as visual programming and computer-assisted software engineering help with Rapid Application Development.
raw	brut	
raw socket	socket brut	In WinSock, sockets of type SOCK_RAW.
RBL	RBL	Real-time Black Hole List or Real-time Black List.  A list of known spammers used to block Email messages of these spammers from being delivered to a mailbox.
RDN	RDN	Relative Distinguished Name  The context, or path, from an object to another object of the Directory tree.
Read	Lire	1. A Small Business Suite directory and file right. It grants the right to open a file in the directory and read its contents.  2. Short for "Read right."
Read right	droit Lire, droit de lecture	R, a file system or property right. In a file system, the trustee can open and read files, open and scan directory contents, and execute any program files located in the directory. Rights assigned at the file level can override the Read directory right. In the case of a property, the trustee can read and compare the values of the property. The Read property right implies the Compare property right.
read write attribute	attribut Lecture-écriture	Rw, a file system attribute automatically assigned to all files created on the network that allows users to read and write files. When the Read Write attribute is set, the Rename Inhibit and Delete Inhibit attributes arent set.
read/write replica	réplique Lecture-écriture	A type of replica that can be used to read or update NDS database information. It cannot be used to create a new partition.
read-after-write verification	vérification de lecture après écriture	A NetWare feature that protects data from failures in network hardware. When the NetWare network operating system writes data to a block on the hard disk, it reads back the data and compares it to the original data still in memory. If the data from the disk matches the data in memory, the data in memory is released. If the data does not match, Hot Fix marks that block on the disk as bad and redirects the data to another location on the hard disk.
reader	lecteur	A machine that captures data for the computer, such as an optical character reader, magnetic card reader and punched card reader. Also a computer program that is capable to read the particular format of files.
reader	lecteur	The predefined role that enables a user to view and read articles in a particular Internet discussion group or discussion group hierarchy.
readiness criteria	critères de disponibilité	Criteria to judge whether the current screen is ready for a specific action.
readme file	fichier readme; fichier lisezmoi	
read-only	lecture seule	Ro  Short for "read-only attribute."
read-only attribute	attribut Lecture seule	Ro, a file system attribute that prevents a file or directory from being deleted, renamed, or written to modified. When this attribute is set, the rename inhibit and delete inhibit attributes are automatically set.
read-write lock	verrou de lecture-écriture	Unlike mutex locks that prevent threads from simultaneously accessing a shared data structure, a read-write lock is a lock that allows threads to acquire any number of read locks at one time, but when write acquisistion is requested and obtained by one thread, no read lock may be acquired by any other thread for the duration of the write lock. Short form: RW lock
real mode	mode réel	The mode that allows an 80286, 80386, or 80486 processor to emulate an 8086 processor and run as though it were an 8086 processor.
real world	réalité	The practical world as opposed to the academic world.
realm	domaine	a web server equivalent to a context in directory services.
reassembly	réassemblage	The putting back together of a datagram message at the destination after it has been fragmented either at the source or at an intermediate node.
reassign	réassigner	In GroupWise DMS, to assign the document to a new user.
reattach	rattacher	Reattach is used by GroupWise agent in distributed GroupWise system when network access is interrupted and if Enable Recovery option is enabled.
reboot	redémarrer	To restart a computer.
rebuild	reconstruire	Rebuild Database is a GroupWise System Maintenance operation. It corrects physical problems and updates all user and object information.
receive	recevoir	To be a recipient.
receive timestamp	tampon horaire de réception	This is the time at which the request arrived at the server, in 64-bit timestamp format.
receiver	récepteur	
recipient	destinataire	A person who receives an item.
reconciliation	actualisation	The process of altering the replication database on a server to make it consistent with the current state of the replication set.
record	enregistrement	A set of logically associated data items in a database, usually the unit transferred between an application and a database-management system (DBMS). A record is often a collection of database fields.
record locking	verrouillage d'enregistrement	A type of concurrency control that enables an application to lock the record it is accessing within a file. Other users can read the record, but no other user can lock, update, or delete the record until the application that holds the lock releases it.
record manager	gestionnaire d'enregistrements	The part of Btrieve that maintains the records in a data file. For example, the Record Manager opens the data file and retrieves, modifies, inserts, and deletes records. The server-based Btrieve Record Manager is a program that resides at the server and handles data I/O with the file system. The client-based Btrieve Record Manager resides at the workstation and handles data I/O with the file system through operating system calls.
record mode	mode d'enregistrement	A mode where user actions are recorded.
recovery	récupération	A process that corrects GroupWise database inconsistencies.
recovery directory	répertoire de récupération	The directory in a replicated volume on both master and replica servers containing a recovery log and the recovered files resulting from synchronization clashes.
recovery log	journal de récupération	A text file containing details of all synchronization clashes that occurred during a synchronization between a server and its master. The administrator must query this file to identify what clashes have occurred, how they have been resolved, and whether further action is required.
recreate	recréer	In GroupWise Mailbox/Library Maintenance, Recreate User Database option is used to recreate a database that has been deleted or destroyed.
recurring	récurrent	In GroupWise, appointments, tasks, and reminder notes can be scheduled as recurring using Auto-Date. Auto-Dates can occur on the same day every week, the same day(s) of the month, or any other defined series of dates.
Red Box	Boîte rouge	The package that contains the standard U.S. format English version of NetWare products.
Red Carpet	Red Carpet	Former name of ZENworks Linux Management. Software (provided by Ximian®) that enables you to centrally control Linux software configurations for both servers and workstations, including the ability to manage users and organize groups of machines for installations and updates; Integrate with leading software update systems such as SUSE YaST and Red Hat Network; roll back software packages to pre-update versions if unintended problems are caused by the update; and automatically resolve software package requirements before updating to ensure that all dependencies are met. Starting with ZENworks 6.5, Red Carpet has been rebranded ZENworks Linux Management.
redirect	rediriger	
redirection area	zone de réacheminement	Short for "Hot Fix redirection area." The space on a hard disk set aside for redirection of data from faulty disk blocks.
redirector	redirecteur	Software within a computer that redirects a request to the proper resource; most often used for a DOS TSR that redirects requests for disk access to a network server.
reduce	réduire	GroupWise Mailbox/Library Maintenance operation that expires messages until the database reaches the size specified.
reentrancy	réentrance	The ability of code to process multiple interleaved requests for service nearly simultaneously. For example, a reentrant function can begin responding to one call, become interrupted by other calls, and complete them all with the same results as if the function had received and executed each call serially. (Source: Apple MacIntosh glossary)
reference	référence	You can enter anything; however, we suggest you include a reference (+ or -) to GMT, for example (GMT-07:00).
reference time server	serveur horaire de référence	RTS  A server that provides a time to which all other time servers and workstations on an NDS network synchronize.  Reference time servers can be synchronized with an external time source, such as an atomic clock. Reference time servers vote with other primary or reference time servers to determine what the common network time should be. However, reference time servers don't adjust their internal clocks; instead, the primary servers' internal clocks are adjusted to synchronize with the reference time server.
referer	page de référence	The referer specifies the page from which the client accessed the current page. For example, if a user was looking at the results from a text search query, the referer would be the page from which the user accessed the text search engine. Referers allow the server to create a list of backtracked links.
referral	renvoi	A client-centric method to resolve names. An LDAP client sends a request to an LDAP server, which attempts to find the target entry of the operation locally. If the server cannot find the target entry, the server uses the knowledge references that it has to generate a referral to a second LDAP server that knows more about the entry. The first server sends the referral information to the LDAP client.
refresh	rafraîchir	To update something with new data.
refresh interval	intervalle de rafraîchissement	In GroupWise 5.x, a feature used to specify how frequently GroupWise checks your GroupWise database for incoming items and displays them in your Mailbox or Calendar.
register	enregistrer	To record in writing; enter into a register.
registered trademark	marque déposée	The owner of a trademark may obtain a certificate of registration and may rely on that certificate to prove the right to exclude others from using the trademark.
registration	enregistrement	The process whereby an application, such as NetWare Administrator, stores the users preferences or customizations for the application in some type of "registry" (which could be the local Windows registry, a configuration file such as .ini, or eDirectory). The registration process then retrieves these preferences when the application is launched.
registry	registre	
Rekey	appui d'une touche du clavier	The action of rekeying before lifetime expires.  Also, The action of inserting information through the keyboard.
Related Topics	Rubriques connexes	Related Topics
relative distinguished name	Nom distinctif relatif (RDN)	A portion of the distinguished name that includes the leaf-most object name. NDS resolves relative names from the workstation's current context, not from [Root]. For example, if the workstation's current context is marketing.VerySmallCompany, and the user's relative name is jsmith.marketing, NDS reads the name as jsmith in marketing in the current context (marketing.VerySmallCompany.). Never use a leding period with a relative name.
relative name	nom relatif	
relaxation rule	règle de relaxation	A rule that is used by a full-text search engine to rank matches for relevancy.
relay host	hôte de relais	A system that transmits to and receives mail from outside the network or domain using the same communications protocol.  In a firewall-protected network, the relay host is the only host which can connect to the Internet and is the only machine which can be "seen" by the Internet. It is itself separated from the network by a router using screening software.
release	libérer	To set free from restraint, or confinement.
remaining grace login	login bonus restant	
reminder note	note	One of GroupWise item types. A reminder note appears on a specific date on user's own or another person's Calendar. Reminder notes can be used to help user or others remember deadlines, holidays, days off, and so forth. Posted reminder notes are useful for remembering birthdays, vacations, paydays, and so forth.
remirror	remettre en miroir	
remote	distant	In networks, remote refers to files, devices, and other resources that are not connected directly to your workstation. Resources at your workstation are considered local.
remote access	accès distant	The ability to get access to a computer or a network from a remote distance.
remote console	console à distance	RCONSOLE  DOS-based and Java-based utilities, both of which let a network administrator use a network workstation as a NetWare server console.  Remote Console enhances security because network administrators can lock servers in a safe place and remove the keyboards and monitors.
remote library	bibliothèque Remote	In GroupWise, a library where documents are placed (echoed) to be accessed in Remote or Caching modes. Documents are echoed whenever user closes or checks in a document in Online Mailbox.
remote mailbox	boîte aux lettres Remote	A copy of user's network mailbox, or the portion of the mailbox you specify, stored on local drive. Remote mailbox is used in remote mode.
Remote mode	mode Remote	One of three modes available for running GroupWise Client software. Other modes are Online mode and Caching mode. Remote mode stores a copy of user's network mailbox, or the portion of the mailbox user specifies, on local drive.
remote node	nœud distant	A Novell Client workstation using Novell Remote Access Dialer software. A remote node connection functions as if it were a workstation connected directly to the network. All data required for a session (file data and application packets) is transferred over the communications link. Data processing occurs on the remote workstation.
remote printer	imprimante distante	In NetWare, a network printer that is not directly connected to the server but to a workstation. Also, a printer that is connected directly to a NetWare server (not running print server software), yet is available for shared network printing.
remote program load	chargement de programme à distance	A process in which an image of a bootable floppy disk is stored on a NetWare volume so that remote boot workstations can use the image to start up at the system prompt.  A Programmable Read-Only Memory PROM chip in the Network Interface Card NIC of the workstation allows the workstation to communicate with the boot server. When the workstation is started, it uses the boot image to load the DOS system and the NetWare Client files required to connect to the network.
remote view	affichage à distance	A ZENworks feature which lets you connect with a managed workstation so you can view the managed workstation instead of controlling it. This will help you troubleshoot problems that the user encounters. For example, you can observe how the user at the managed workstation performs certain tasks to see if the user performs a task incorrectly.
remote workstation	poste de travail distant	A terminal or personal computer connected to the LAN by a router or through a remote asynchronous connection. A remote workstation can be either a standalone computer or a workstation on another network.
Remote Workstation Management	gestion à distance de postes de travail	ZENworks ® for Desktops (ZfD) Remote Management gives you the ability to manage remote workstations (called managed workstations) from the management console.  You can also remotely wake up a powered-off managed workstation, assume control of a managed workstation, and execute files found on a managed workstation.
remote-control characteristics	caractéristiques de contrôle à distance	Properties set in place for remotely controlling a system, a program, etc. Remote control refers to controlling the item in question from a centralized location (i.e., from the administrator's desk) without physically visiting the user's workplace.
removable disk	disque amovible	
remove	déplacer	To make something (such as a file or directory) inactive by taking it out of a place or position and locating it somewhere else.
rename	renommer	Short for "Rename right."
rename inhibit	non renommable	R Short for "Rename Inhibit attribute."
rename inhibit attribute	attribut Non renommable	R A file system attribute that prevents users from renaming the file or directory, even if they have the Modify right. This attribute is automatically set and removed when the Read Only attribute is set or removed.
rename object right	droit Renommer l'objet	Grants the right to change the name of an object. This changes the value of the naming property.
rename right	droit Renommer	R An object right that allows the trustee to change the name of the object. This changes the value of the Name property. Only the last part of the complete name can be changed with this right. Changing other parts of the name implies a move operation.
renderer	moteur de rendu	An information device whose primary purpose is to present information in a form of elements that humans can read and interact with; a type of transducer (Source: Visage)
rendering	rendu	A process for converting any computer data that contains graphical elements onto the screen. For instance, an HTML page is said to be "rendered" when it is displayed. (Source: TechWeb)
repair	réparation	A Novell Replication Services process launched from the Replication panel; it involves removing the corrupted database and regenerating it based on the contents of the replication database on its master or replica server. A repair may be necessary if the replication database on a master or replica server becomes corrupted for any reason.
Repeat loop	boucle répétitive	A process loop executed by Repeat statement.
replacement variable	variable de substitution	Variables in batch files that are replaced by the parameters you enter in the command line when you run the batch file.
replica	réplique	A copy of an NDS database partition's information, which can be stored on several servers.  For the NDS database to be distributed across a network, it must be stored on many servers. Rather than storing a copy of the whole NDS database on each server, replicas of each NDS partition are stored on many servers throughout the network.  An unlimited number of replicas can be created for each NDS partition and stored on any server.  The types of replica include master, read-only, and read/write.
replica depth	profondeur de la réplique	Field in the DSREPAIR log indicating at what level of the eDirectory partition a replica starts. The replica depth field reports -1 if no replicas are stored on the server or 0 if the server contains a replica of the [Root] partition. A positive integer indicates how many objects deep from the [Root] the first replica is on that server.
replica ring	anneau de répliques	A group of servers holding replicas of the same NDS partition
replica server	serveur de répliques	A server to which file system objects are replicated from a master server.
replica synchronization	synchronisation des répliques	A means of ensuring that replicas of an NDS partition contain the same information as other replicas of that partition. The update is triggered when properties for an object are added, deleted, moved, or changed.
replicated hierarchy	hiérarchie répliquée	In Novell Replication Services (NRS), a directory structure on NetWare volume to be replicated from the master server to the slave server.
replication	réplication	Copying the NDS partition and putting the copy in a separate location from the original (usually on another server).
replication database	base de données de réplication	The database maintained on each master and replica server to record the state of the server's file system hierarchy and changes made to that hierarchy. This information is required to manage replication and synchronization.
replication host	hôte de réplication	A news server that sends or receives Internet discussion groups.
replication map	carte de réplication	A diagrammatic representation of a replication tree, used to identify the required hierarchy of servers for a proposed replication solution.
replication network	réseau de réplication	A network in which NetWare file system objects (volumes, directories, files, trustees, inherited rights filters, and name space entries) are selectively replicated from one server to any number of other servers in the same NDS tree.
replication region	région de réplication	The group of servers comprising a single master server and all replica servers containing file system objects replicated directly from that master server. Replication regions are connected by link servers, which exist as a master in one region and a replica in another.
replication set	ensemble de réplication	All of the file system objects replicated from a single master server to any number of replica servers.
replication site	site de réplication	A database site that contains symetrically replicated data
replication tree	arborescence de réplication	The entire replication network, including all master, link, and replica servers. A replication tree may comprise one or more replication regions, depending on the topology used. A diagrammatic representation of a replication tree is called a replication map.
replicator	duplicateur	One of the default groups created when Windows NT is installed on a computer. Others are: Administrators, Backup Operators, Users, Guests, Power Users, Server Operators, and Print Operators. Each group is assigned a specific set of rights that govern what the group members can do on a NT Workstation or an NT Server.
reply	réponse	In the GroupWise client, an option/button that generates a reply to an item. The reply can go to the sender of the item only (Reply to Sender) or to all recipients of the item (Reply All).
reply thread	thread de réponse	
report	rapport	
reporting	création de rapport	document management capability
repository	référentiel	A location where objects/file are being stored
request	requête	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), a call for an action in ToolTalk. The results of the action are recorded in the message, and the message is returned to the sender as a reply. A request asks that an operation be performed. It has a distinguished recipient (handler) responsible for performing the indicated option.
request cache	cache de requêtes	
request document	document de requête	A document used for a request.
request to send	requête d'émission	RTS An RS-232C control signal between a modem and user digital equipment that initiates the data transmission sequence in a communications line. The request to send signal is used to prepare a modem for transmitting data.
requester	requêteur	The portion of NetWare Btrieve that resides at a workstation and passes Btrieve requests from an application to the Btrieve Record Manager on the NetWare file server.
requester	requêteur	1. An ATP socket client that requests a service by sending a TReq packet to a responder. 2. A program that resides at a workstation and passes requests from an application to a server-based application
required rights	droits requis	Using Novell Replication Services, the object rights or permissions necessary to work as an administrator and to add, change, or remove server, replication, or synchronization information.
reschedule	replanifier	A GroupWise option letting users retract, edit, and resend a GroupWise scheduled item (appointment, etc.).
reseller license	Licence Revendeur	
resend	renvoyer	To send an item (e.g., mail message, reminder note, task, etc.) a second time, perhaps with corrections.
reset	réinitialiser	To set again or anew.
reset document status	réinitialiser l'état du document	A GroupWise document management option that lets a user change a documents status from In Use to Available.
resident server	serveur résident	
resolution	résolution	The number of dots per inch used to create an image.
resolve	résoudre	
resolver	résolveur	A DNS client that sends queries to a name server to get information about hosts in one or more DNS domains.
resolver configuration	configuration du résolveur	In NetWare, a section in INETCFG server utility that allows you to configure DNS client options.
resource	ressource	Resources are items that can be scheduled for meetings or other uses. Resources can include rooms, overhead projectors, cars, and more. The system administrator defines a resource by giving it an identifying name and assigning it to a user. A user assigned to manage a resource is the owner of that resource and is responsible to accept and decline appointments for the resource.
resource center	centre de ressources	Short for Novell Resource Center.  A Novell internal web application designed to help users to profile, organize, share, and search Novell content.
resource efficiency	efficacité des ressources	Working capacity of resources (employees, computers, other devices) yielding positive results.
resource fork	plage de ressources	The part of a Macintosh file that contains file resources, including Macintosh-specific information such as the windows and icons used with the file.
resource management service	service de gestion des ressources	RMS A brokered service in NDPS that allows resources to be installed in a central location and then downloaded to clients, printers, or any other entity on the network that needs them. The Resource Management Service supports adding, listing, and replacing resources, including printer drivers, printer definition PDF files, banners, and fonts.
resource record set	ensemble d'enregistrements de ressource	A collection of DNS resource records that are composed of the same name, type, and class.
resource tag	étiquette de ressource	An operating system tag that keeps track of NetWare server resources such as screens and allocated memory.  NLM programs request a resource from the NetWare server for each kind of resource they use and then give it a resource tag name.  NLM programs return resources when they no longer need them. When the NLM is unloaded, the resources are returned to the NetWare server.  Resource tags ensure that allocated resources are properly returned to the operating system upon termination of an NLM.
responder	répondeur	An ATP socket client that performs a service for a requester and sends a TResp packet to notify the responder that the service was performed.
response document	document de réponse	A document used for a response.
response file	fichier de réponses	A plain text file that can be created in any text editor, which contains the information similar to that which an end user would enter as responses to dialog boxes when running a normal InstallShield installation.
restore	restaurer	To reinstate backed up data to the file system.
restore	restaurer	To reinstate backed up data to the file system.
restore area	zone de restauration	A location GroupWise administrator designates to hold a backup copy of a post office.
Restore from Local mode	mode Restore from Local (restaurer à partir d'un périphérique local)	In ZENworks for Desktops, an imaging mode that retrieves an image from a local device and places it on a computer.
Restore from Proxy mode	mode Restore from Proxy (restaurer à partir d'un proxy)	In ZENworks for Desktops, an imaging mode that retrieves an image from an imaging (proxy) server and places it on a computer.
Restore mode	mode Restore (restaurer)	In ZENworks for Desktops, an imaging mode that retrieves an image from a specified location, either locally or from a proxy, and places it on a computer.
restripe	resegmenter	To reallocate striped data across the physical storage devices on a RAID after you have added a new physical storage device to the RAID. The physical storage devices on a RAID always contain equal amounts of data.
resume	reprendre	
retail license	license au détail (standard)	A type of license intended for companies that purchase a copy of NetWare through the Novell distribution channel, whereby they receive a licensing diskette with the product. If they need more licenses, they can purchase additional licenses.
retract	retirer	In GroupWise, to delete an item already sent (in error) before the recipient opens it.
retransmission	retransmission	Resending data over a communications line.
retrieval	extraction	To obtain a specific requested data by locating it and returning it to a program or a user.
retrieve	récupérer	To load data, settings, options, etc. from a file.
retrieve	récupérer	To download mail items from the master mailbox to the remote or caching mailbox.
retry	réessayer	In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, a menu item used to attempt to complete an interrupted process.
retry count	nombre de réessais	The number specifying how many attempts to perform a requested action have been made or should be made.
retry delay	délai de réessai	The amount of time the software should wait before re-attempting a requested action.
retry interval	intervalle de réessai	In GroupWise, a value used to specify the time interval between each redial attempt.
retry value	valeur de réessai	The value entered to specify how often a requested action should be attempted.
return for credit	retour contre un avoir	The fact of returning an item to a company in order to get credited for it.
return notification	renvoyer une notification	In the GroupWise client, a feature that allows user to be notified of the status of sent message instead of checking GroupWise properties. The notification can be sent as a mail message, notify, or both. Notifications occur when a message is opened, deleted, accepted or completed.
Return On Investment	retour sur investissement	ROI. The overall profit or loss resulting from an investment transaction, usually expressed as an annual percentage of the total invested.
return on investment	retour sur investissement	ROI. The overall profit or loss resulting from an investment transaction, usually expressed as an annual percentage of the total invested.
Return On Investment Tool	outil de ROI	A tool for calculating ROI.
return receipt	accusé de réception	In the GroupWise client, a notification of sent item status.
retype password	retapez le mot de passe (Novell option)	
Reviewer's guide	guide du réviseur (Reviewer's guide)	A document written to help press, analysts and customers quickly understand the advantages of a product over other solutions. Generally, includes an overview of the company and market, what to consider when reviewing solutions in this category, a guided tour walkthrough of the product, and frequently asked questions.
revocation server	serveur de révocation	GroupWise is unable to perform revocation checking for the following recipient encryption certificate because the certificate cannot be found in the revocation server.
ring network	réseau en anneau	A network where the NetWare server and workstations are cabled in a ring; a workstations messages may have to pass through several other workstations before reaching the NetWare server. Token-ring is an example of a ring network.
RIP	RIP	Routing Information Protocol. A distance-vector protocol that specifies how routers exchange routing table information.
RO	RO	Initialism for "Read Only attribute."
road map	feuille de route	A set of guidelines, instructions, or explanations: wrote an ethics code as a road map for the behavior of elected officials.
roaming	mobile	In addition with ZENworks for Desktops roaming profiles, users can select, at login, the environment they want based on where they are and how they are connecting.
rogue process management	fonction de gestion des processus malveillants	A ZENworks feature that lets you find out about and stop application processes not launchd by Appplication Launcher/Explorer.
ROI	ROI (Return On Investment - retour sur investissement)	See "Return on Investment."
role	rôle	A function. In Role Based Services (RBS), a role specifies the tasks that users (members) are authorized to perform. Defining a role includes creating an rbsRole object and specifying the tasks that the role can perform.
role-based authentication	authentification basée sur le rôle	Authentifying a user according to his/her organizational function.
roll back	revenir à l'état initial	To abort a transaction and undo all the changes made to a Btrieve file during the transaction, thus restoring the file to the state it was in before the transaction began.
roll forward	repositionner; (if used as a noun: repositionnement avec restauration actualisée)	Recovering changes made to a Btrieve file between the time logging is initiated and a system failure.
roll forward log	fichier journal de transaction individuelle	A record of all changes to the database. Roll Forward Logging is the process of updating the data in a restored database by applying changes recorded in the database log. Similar to 'forward recovery.'
roll in	transférer les modifications du fichier temporaire vers le fichier d'origine	To write to a Btrieve original file all the changes made to the corresponding temporary file during the continuous operation backup period. When the backup is complete, Btrieve automatically updates the original file with the changes and deletes the temporary file.
rollback	retour à l'état initial	Taking back an action, e.g., a software installation, and returning the system to the state before the operation's start.
roll-forward log	fichier journal de transaction individuelle	A log that contains one single transaction. Every transaction is logged in a separate log file.
roll-forward logging	consignation de transactions individuelles par fichier	A logging process whereby a new log is created for every transaction, as opposed to having one single log file.
rolling upgrade	mise à niveau progressive	In a cluster, the process of systematically upgrading cluster nodes one node at a time. During the upgrade, the remaining cluster nodes continue to provide service.
roll-up	transfert en amont	The process of moving data from a child server to a parent server, so the parent server will have a bigger picture of all the data on the network.
roll-up history	historique du transfert en amont	A log of roll-up events (see Roll-up) over a given period of time.
roll-up policy	règle de transfert en amont	The Roll-Up policy configures the Inventory server for roll-up of scan information. The settings in the Roll-Up policy identify the next-level Inventory server (DN of the Inventory Service object) for moving the scan data from the selected Inventory server. These settings are stored in eDirectory and are associated with the Inventory server object.
roll-up scheduler	planificateur de règle de transfert en amont	A policy in Zenworks Inventory.
root	racine	
root directory	répertoire racine	The highest directory level in a hierarchical directory structure.  With NetWare, the root directory is the volume; all other directories are subdirectories of the volume.  The root directory is represented by a slash (/) in UNIX systems.
root object	objet Racine	[Root] object  An object in the NDS tree whose purpose is to provide a highest point to access different Country and Organization objects, and to allow trustee assignments granting rights to the entire NDS tree. Country, Organization, and Alias objects can be created at the [Root] object. The [Root] object is a place holder; it contains no information.  Sometimes called a directory root.
root partition	partition racine	An eDirectory partition that includes the tree root.
root server	serveur racine	The Root Server is the highest-level server in the inventory tree hierarchy. This server has an Inventory database that contains the inventory information of all lower-level servers. At the Root Server level, you can view complete inventory information for the entire enterprise.
root user	utilisateur root	The Root user, on Linux systems, is the default system administration username. This user can create new user ID's, manage access control and setup access logs. It is also the top-most directory.
Round Robin	Round Robin	Continuously repeating sequence, such as the polling of a series of terminals, one after the other, over and over again.  2.   Round robin DNS is a method of managing server congestion by distributing connection loads across multiple servers (containing identical content).  Round robin works on a rotating basis in that one server IP address is handed out, then moves to the back of the list; the next server IP address is handed out, then it moves to the end of the list; and so on, depending on the number of servers being used. This works in a looping fashion.
round-trip time	temps d'aller-retour	AppleTalk.  The time for the echo request to arrive at its destination and for the  corresponding reply to return.  This value indicates the time it takes to send the last echo request packet and receive a reply.
route	route	A route determines which computers are accessible from yours across the network. A route has two parts separated by a colon; the network address and the machine address.
route	router	To direct a message packet from one node source to another destination.
route	route	Route determines the order of the users in routed item (created with Routing Slip option). When a user marks the routed item Completed, it is sent to the next user on the route.
router	routeur	A device that connects two networks using the same networking protocol for managing the exchange of data packets. It operates at the network layer (Layer 3) of the OSI model.
router discovery	découverte de routeur	
router discovery protocol	protocole de découverte de routeur	A protocol in the TCP/IP suite that allows hosts to find routers on locally attached networks. This protocol ends the need to configure hosts with a routing table or a default router.
router information protocol	protocole d'information de routage	(RIP) A protocol that provides a way for routers to exchange routing information on a NetWare internetwork.
router memory pool	réserve de mémoire du routeur	
routing	routage	The transmission of a datagram from one node to another node. Routing encompasses the process of route discovery as well as the actual sending of the datagram.
routing area	zone de routage	An administrative domain consisting of connected IPX networks with the same area address. Users in a routing area have network-layer access to the same services.
routing buffer	tampon de routage	A portion of memory reserved in a router's RAM. Routing buffers are used to temporarily store and queue the message packets sent between communicating stations when the network bus is busy.
routing domain	domaine de routage	A group of routing areas joined by level 2 routers. A routing domain can be a company, a university, an agency, or even a public carrier connecting two or more business or academic organizations. Within a routing domain, each local campus or other suborganization constitutes a routing area.
routing information filter	filtre d'informations de routage	A filter that restricts the exchange of routing information between routers. To increase security, these filters limit the visibility of selected networks and reduce the network bandwidth consumed by the periodic exchange of routing information.
routing information table	table d'informations de routage	In the context of Routing Information Protocol RIP, a table stored in an IPX RIP router. The table contains network numbers, routes to a particular destination network, and metrics, such as hops and ticks, associated with those routes. The router uses this information to forward packets to their destinations by the best possible route.
routing protocol	protocole de routage	A protocol that uses a specific routing algorithm. Examples of routing protocols include Routing Information Protocol RIP, Open Shortest Path First OSPF, Network Link Services Protocol NLSP, Routing Table Maintenance Protocol RTMP, and AppleTalk Update-based Routing Protocol AURP.
routing slip	bordereau de routage	A GroupWise feature that enables users to send a mail message or task to several recipients consecutively.
routing table	table de routage	A database in a router that keeps track of routes (and in some cases, metrics associated with those routes) to local and remote network destinations. The routing table enables a router to forward datagrams from a source socket to a destination socket. In IP, routing tables are maintained on all hosts.
routing table maintenance protocol	protocole de maintenance de la table de routage	RTMP A distance vector protocol that updates tables every 10 seconds; used by routers to exchange information. RTMP is the routing protocol used by AppleTalk. It is very similar to RIP.
routing update	mise à jour de routage	A message sent from a router to indicate that a network can be reached. The message includes associated cost information. A routing update is typically sent at regular intervals as well as after a change in network topology.
RPM	RPM	Redhat Package Manager. The RPM is used by many Linux distributions, not only Redhat, to hold all files and data about a package together in one file (.rpm).
rsa	rsa	Rivest-Shamir-Aldeman A public key also known as asymmetric encryption algorithm, named after MIT professors who devised it.
rtsp	rtsp	Real Time Streaming Protocol - A specification for transmitting audio, video and 3-D animation over the Internet. It was developed by Netscape and Progressive Networks. TechEncyclopedia raburto 8/20/99
rule	règle	A statement specifying what is permissible under given circumstances. E.g. Novell eDirectory rules of containment determine what containers can contain which objects.
rule chaining	chaînage de règles	Rule chaining is a feature added in DirXML 1.1 that allows multiple rule objects to be chained together to form the total rule processing for a rule step (e.g., Create Rule, Placement Rule, etc.). This allows a stylesheet to supplement the operation of a simple rule without having to completely replace the rule with a stylesheet.
run	exécuter	To start an application or action.
runtime	exécution	Refers to the actual execution of a program. "At runtime" means while the program is running. (Source: TechWeb)
runtime errors	erreurs d'exécution	Problems that are encountered when a program is being executed. Runtime errors can occur in software environments for many different reasons; for example, peripheral devices may not be turned on or instructions may be invalid. Such errors often occur with interpreted languages such as Java and JavaScript, which convert source code to machine language a line at a time for execution. Compiled languages will prevent some runtime errors, because the code is verified to some extent ahead of time, but resources can always be missing in a computing environment, which can cause an error upon execution.
runtime server	serveur d'exécution	
rw	RW	Initialism for "Read Write attribute."
RW lock	verrou de lecture-écriture	RW lock
rx	RX	Initialism for "Read Execute" attribute.
s	S	Short for Supervisor Right.
SA	SA	Service Agent
Sales Office	bureau de vente	A Novell Office responsible for sales in a particular region.
salt	valeur aléatoire (salt)	A seed value used in the encrypted of a plaintext password to expand the number of possible resulting ciphertexts from a given plaintext. The use of a salt value is a defensive measure against dictionary attacks against encrypted passwords. (Source: http://cryptnet.net/fdp/crypto/basic_intros/kerberos/)
salvage	recouvrer	To recover files that were deleted but have not yet been purged.
salvageable file	fichier recouvrable	A NetWare file that have been deleted by users but is recoverable.
salvageable files	fichiers récupérables	
SAMBA	SAMBA	SMB or Session Message Block based network suite for UNIX.
same-server migration	migration sur le même serveur	A method of upgrading a network to NetWare 4.0 in which a single network server is used. A hard disk on the workstation temporarily holds bindery information.
SAN (Storage area network)	SAN (sous-réseau de stockage)	Storage area network
SAP	SAP	Service Advertising Protocol. A NetWare feature that advertises the services available on the applications server.
sap filtering	filtrage SAP	Service Advertising Protocol filtering. A means by which an administrator can manage Service Advertising Protocol SAP network traffic by specifying criteria that SAP packets must meet in order to be shared with other DSS servers. The criteria in SAP filters consist of an address, a SAP type, and a server name. By varying the combinations of these in "include" and "exceptions" lists, filters can specify whether packets should or should not be sent to all servers on a DSS network.
saved items pane	volet des éléments enregistrés	The lower pane of the Macintosh Workspace. The Saved Items pane contains the entities and utilities represented in your session file.
scalability	évolutivité	Refers to how much a system can be expanded. The term by itself implies a positive capability. For example, "the device is known for its scalability" means that it can be made to serve a larger number of users without breaking down or requiring major changes in procedure.
scalability	évolutivité	Ability to resize networks
scalable	évolutif	Of or relating to the characteristic of a hardware/software/network that makes it possible for it to expand or shrink to meet future needs and circumstances.
scan	analyser	To sequentially search a file for specific content.
scatter gather	découpage/réassemblage	A feature of many disk drivers that improves the performance of disk reads and writes by combining many small I/O requests into one. If data is to be written to sequential locations on disk, the driver "gathers" the data from different locations in RAM and combines the data into one write. If data is to be read from sequential locations on disk, the driver executes one read and then "scatters" the data to different locations in RAM.
schedule	planification	A plan for performing work.
schedule	planifier	To place an event in a schedule for execution at the given date.
scheduled synchronization	synchronisation planifiée	In Novell Replication Services, synchronization that is set up by the administrator to occur at a specified time and frequency. Also called scheduled synchronization.
scheduler	planificateur	In multiprocessing systems, the core part of an operating system. It performs essential tasks and is responsible for managing system resources. Also called a kernel.
scheduling	planification	The mechanism for determining the best sequence for assigning resources to contending threads. Scheduling involves managing concurrently running threads, responding to requests for services, tracking the progress of threads, and allocating system resources (especially memory space and CPU time).
scheduling conflict	conflit de planification	A conflict arising from two events being scheduled to take place at the same time.
schema	schéma	The rules that define how the eDirectory tree is constructed. These rules define the types of objects that can be created in the tree (e.g., users, printers, groups) and what information required or optional at the time the object is created. Every object has a defined schema class for that type of object.
schema attribute	attribut de schéma	
schema attribute	attribut de schéma	Attribute of the schema file.
schema class definition	définition de classe de schéma	Definition number for the schema class.
schema extension	extension de schéma	
Schema Extension Utility	utilitaire d'extension de schéma	Utility used, in addition to Novell iManager, to manually extend the schema, that is to define additional objects needed for DNS and DHCP.
schema mapping	assignation de schéma	An XML based rule that describes a one-to-one mapping of classes and attributes between eDirectory and the application. An XSLT stylesheet may be substituted or referenced in order to support more complex mappings.
School License Agreement	Accord de licence SLA (School License Agreement)	The School License Agreement is a simple, flexible contract, which has been designed exclusively for primary and secondary educational establishments for students between the ages of 5-16 years. The short, simple contract provides the customer with the 'right to use' Novell software for a competitive fixed Annual Fee, thus making it similar to a 'leasing' agreement. This style of agreement allows the customer to avoid the usual budget constraints and analysis involved in software ownership.
screen	écran	screen
screen scraping	recopie visuelle (screen scraping)	A way to selectively remove information from a host application's terminal interface for reuse.
scripted imaging	création d'image avec script	As opposed to "standard imaging", scripted imaging allows you to add a series of ZENworks imaging commands to the Workstation Image object via ConsoleOne. The Imaging Engine (img) will extract the scripted image from NDS and create a temporary script file, which is then executed.
scripting language	langage de script	Commands and syntax rules used for creating scripts.
scroll	faire défiler	To move the contents of a document or list through the view portion of a window.
scroll bar	barre de défilement	1. The bars on the right side and bottom of the window that let you move horizontally and vertically through the document or graphic by clicking on the scroll arrows or dragging the scroll box. 2. A strip placed vertically at the right or horizontally at the bottom of a window or list box. A scroll bar has a scroll arrow at either end and a scroll box which moves as the display moves. 3. The bar that appears on the bottom or right edge of a window when the window contains more information than can fit in it.
seamless access	accès transparent	ZENworks for Desktops enables administrators to make user access easier, more reliable and seamless through client-less, agent-based management.
search	recherche	A query for information from a database. In NetWare 4.0, you can perform searches in the NDS database using NLIST usually in combination with CX or the NetWare Administrator graphical utility.
search agent	agent de recherche	Novell Enterprise Server agent that executes periodically, notifying the client of any documents that have been modified after the last time the search agent was executed.
search criteria	critères de recherche	The values you specify during a search.  The system finds entries in the database that match the requested values.
search drive	unité de recherche	A drive that the operating system searches when a requested file isn't found in the current directory. Search drives are supported only from DOS workstations. A search drive allows a user working in one directory to access an application or data file located in another directory.
search engine	moteur de recherche	A mechanism, utility, or program that allows users to search a collection of information, such as a Web site, to quickly find a specific subset of information.
search path	chemin de recherche	A list indicating to the operating system which directories to search if a requested program is not found in the current directory.
search policy	règle de recherche	A policy used to prevent tree-walking. Unless specified differently in a Search policy, when ZfD starts searching for an object's associated policy packages, it starts at the object and works its way up the tree. If ZfD does not have any Search policies defined, it will walk the tree until if finds an effective policy for the object, thus causing unnecessary network traffic.
secondary domain	domaine secondaire	Each additional domain created in the system after the first (primary) domain is a secondary domain.
secondary server	serveur secondaire	The SFT III server that is activated after the primary server is activated.  The secondary server mirrors the primary server, provides split seeks, and acts as a router for the local network segments to which it is directly attached (if the primary server isn't attached to those segments). It cannot do any additional work because it uses all its CPU cycles to keep current its mirror of the primary server.  If the primary server fails, the secondary server becomes the primary server.
secondary time server	serveur horaire secondaire	A server that obtains the time from a single reference, primary, or reference time server and provides the time to client workstations.
secret	secret	
secret identifier	identificateur de secret	The "name" or ID of a secret.
SecretStore	SecretStore	SecretStore provides a secure infrastructure for storing and retrieving application credentials in NDS
SecretStore Manager	SecretStore Manager	Enables users to perform basic maintenance tasks on their SecretStore. And protects secrets by requiring NMAS authentication before a user can view secrets
SecretStore Status	SecretStore Status	SecretStore Status is a lite version of SecretStore Manager. Enables users to set their master password, unlock SecretStore, switch between NDS trees, or switch between DNS usernames.
sector	secteur	A sibdivision of a track on a hard-disk drive.
secure authentication service	service d'authentification sécurisée (SAS, Secure Authentication Service)	SAS
Secure Enterprise Dashboard	tableau de bord sécurisé d'entreprise	The Novell Enterprise Dashboard delivers an interactive, personalized, analytical portrait of the organization that is relevant, actionable, secure, and available.  Creates competitive advantage by improving the speed and effectiveness of business decisions Intelligently gathers, processes and presents actionable Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) through personalized views Empowers management to securely monitor business-critical information rather than searching for it.
secure identity management	gestion sécurisée des identités	General term. Managing the identities of users in a secure way so that tampering with the network from outside (or from the inside, for that matter) is effectively avoided.
Secure Logging Server	serveur de consignation sécurisée	Secure Logging Server means a central server where all log events are collected and acted upon.
secure socket layer	SSL (Secure Socket Layer)	SSL The set of rules governing the exchange of information between two devices using a public key encryption system. SSL establishes and maintains secure communication between SSL-enabled servers and clients across the Internet.
secure web server	serveur Web sécurisé	A server on the World Wide Web that supports one or more of the major security protocols such as SSL, SHTTP and PCT.
Secure Workstation	Secure Workstation	A Novell service providing a mechanism for locking down a workstation when an authentication device has been removed or after a user inactivity timeout.
security	sécurité	Elements that control access to the network or to specific information on the network. Six categories of NetWare security are Login security, Trustees, Rights, Inheritance, Attributes, and Effective rights.
security certificate	certificat de sécurité	If you receive a secure item from another user and don't initially trust the security certificate, you can trust it later by opening the item > clicking File > Security Properties > Edit Trust.
security credentials	références de sécurité	A set of security-related information that includes identification and proof of identification that is used to gain access to resources. Examples of credentials are user names and passwords, and certificates.
security equal to	sécurité égale à	Short for "Security Equal To property."
security equal to me	sécurité égale à moi	Short for "Security Equal To Me property."
security equivalence	équivalence de sécurité	An NDS feature that allows a user to possess all the rights of another object. Only users can have security equivalence.  A user is automatically security-equivalent to the Groups and Organizational roles that he or she belongs to, and is implicitly security-equivalent to the [Public] trustee and to each container above the user in the tree, including [Root]. A user is explicitly security-equivalent to the objects listed in his or her Security Equals property.
security equivalence vector	vecteur d'équivalence de sécurité	An object created by Directory Services whenever a user logs in to an NetWare server and authenticates to the Directory, and stored in the connection table on the server. The SEV (Security Equivalence Vector) contains a list of that user's sequirty equivalences and is created on every server that the client authenticates to.
security label	libellé de sécurité	A security label is used to describe the sensitivity of information. It is a set made up of integrity and secrecy categories. A security label can be assigned to a volume or to any NDS attribute. The security label is compared against a user's current clearance to determine what information the user can access.
security label	libellé de sécurité	In the Public Key Infrastructure, the marking bound to a resource (which may be a data unit) that names or designates the security attributes of that resource (see ISO/IEC 7498-2).
security principal	principal de sécurité	An account holder that is automatically assigned a security identifier for access to resources. A security principal can be a user, group, service, or computer.
security provider	fournisseur de sécurité	Security options are available only if you have installed a supported security provider, as explained in About Secure MessagesAbout_Secure_Messages<\hidden text>.
see also	voir aussi	Short for "See Also property."
seed router	routeur configuré	An AppleTalk router that must be manually configured when it is added to a Novell network. Other routers obtain their configuration from this router. A seed router defines the range of network numbers for all routers in an AppleTalk network segment. Each AppleTalk network segment must have at least one seed router. A seed router is also known as a configured router.
seeding state	état d'apprentissage	Refers to an AppleTalk router's ability to teach other routers on a connected network about the network configuration. Examples for seeding states are "learning" or "configured".
segment	segment	A discrete portion of a network or a local-area network (LAN) that has no routers or bridges.
segment terminator	caractère de fin de segment	A character where each segment ends.
select	sélectionner	In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, 1 To add highlighting or some other visual cue to an item or element so that it can be operated or enabled. Selection does not imply the initiation of an action but rather a change of state, such as highlighting an item in a list, or toggling a check box on. 2 In the OSF/Motif Style Guide to explicitly identify one or more elements with which to interact.
selection widget	widget de sélection	A control that allows you to select from a variety of choices. Examples of selection widgets include radio buttons, check boxes, list boxes, and toggle buttons
self management	autogestion	In eGuide, a feature (configured through iManager) which enables users to manage their own attributes based on role assignment (available with eDirectory 8.7)
self-audit	self-audit	It shows how many licenses you should own compared to how many licenses you have actually purchased.
self-healing application	auto-dépannage des applications	Computer application which is able to repair itself when damaged.
self-managing network	réseau auto-administré	Network which is capable of managing itself, i.e., with little or no intervention by the administrator.
self-managing system	système auto-administré	System which needs only little managing effort, if any.
self-signed public key certificate	certificat de clé publique auto-signé	A public key certificate that is signed with the entity's own private key. The self-signed certificate for the Oganizational CA is created when the Organizational CA is created.
semantic agent	agent sémantique	A module that represents a client in the NSS software architecture. Semantic agents are defined above the common layer for access to the object engine layer. In the object engine, a semantic agent can access storage objects, such as NSS volumes
semaphore	sémaphore	An interprocess communication signal that indicates the status of a shared system resource, such as shared memory. There are several types of semaphores:  a. Event semaphore: Allows a thread to tell other threads that an event has occurred and it is safe for them to resume execution.  b. Mutual exclusion (mutex) semaphore: protects system resources, such as files, data, and peripheral devices, from simultaneous access by several processes.  c. Multiple wait (muxwait) semaphore: Allows threads to wait for multiple events to take place, or for multiple resources to become free.
seminar in a box	séminaire prêt à l'emploi	Seminar in a box refers to having everything you need to organize and run your own sales seminar, everything you need on one place or one box if you will.
send	envoyer	In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, the Compose window button in Mailer used to deliver an electronic mail message.
send finished call back	routine de notification de fin d'envoi	A procedure that is called when everything has been sent out the wire by the LAN driver so that it can clean up (or free) any resources it may have allocated.
send option	option d'envoi	In the GroupWise client, configuration category that includes send settings such as priority, status tracking, and security for mail and phone messages, appointments, tasks, and notes.
send/receive cycle	cycle de réception/envoi	In GroupWise gateways (including GWIA), a configuration parameter that represents the number of seconds you want to split between gateway cycles for sending and receiving messages.
sender	expéditeur	To dispatch by a means of communication.
Sender	expediteur	The sender, alongside with the Receiver, is one of Inventory components on servers. Sender and Receiver compress scan files and then transfer the files from the lower-level servers to the the higher-level servers for roll-up of inventory information.
sent item	élément envoyé	Any GroupWise item (Mail Message, Phone Message, Appointment, etc. ) the user has sent. The user can decide in which folder sent items are to be placed.
sentinel variable	variable sentinelle	A variable that is used to mark something.
separator bar	barre de séparation	A bar that separates frames.
sequence grade	niveau de séquence	The composite of all authentication grades of the methods in the login sequence. For example, if a login sequence contains a password login method and a biometric login method, the login sequence would have a sequence grade of "Biometric & Password"
sequence number	numéro de séquence	The sequence number that provides a numerical identifier for each packet sent. Sequence numbers are attributed to OSI Transport layer protocols such as SPX and TCP.
sequenced packet exchange	échange de paquets en séquence	SPX A NetWare DOS Requester module that enhances the IPX protocol by supervising data sent out across the network. SPX verifies and acknowledges successful packet delivery to any network destination by requesting a verification from the destination that the data was received. The SPX verification must include a value that matches the value calculated from the data before transmission. By comparing these values, SPX ensures not only that the data packet arrived at the destination, but that it arrived intact.
serial communication	communication série	The transmission of data between devices over a single line, one bit at a time. NetWare uses the RS-232 serial communication standard to send information to serial printers, remote workstations, remote routers, and asynchronous communication servers.
serial number	numéro de série	A unique number assigned by the vendor to each unit of hardware or software.
serial port	port série	A connector between a computer and another component, such as a printer or modem, that uses a serial interface. Serial communications can be synchronous if controlled by a clock or asynchronous if coordinated by start and stop bits
serial printer	imprimante série	1. A printer that receives data by way of a serial interface. 2. A serial printer accepts data transferred a bit at a time and assembled into bytes using handshaking techniques. Serial printers generally require more configuration and setup than parallel printers, but can support longer printer cables.
serial transmission	transmission série	A transmission method in which bits are sent one after the other on the same wire.
serialization	sérialisation	A process of assigning serial numbers to software to prevent unlawful duplication of the product.
server	serveur	A powerful computer running software that supplies network clients with services, such as file, print, communication, or application services. Examples of servers include a. Routing servers, which connect nodes and networks of similiar architectures. b. Gateway servers, which connect nodes and networks of different architectures by performing protocol conversions. c. Terminal servers, print servers, disk servers, and file servers, which provide an interface between compatible peripheral devices on a local area network.
server administrator	administrateur de serveur	An NDS administrator role for administering the server. He has all rights (except the Create and Rename rights) to the server object. In other words, he can modify existing objects such as passwords, group memberships and login scripts.
Server appliances	serveurs applicatifs	a network attached storage appliance
server certificate object	objet Certificat de serveur	An NDS object that contains the public key, private key, certificate, and certificate chain. It is also known as a Key Material Object (KMO) or, in the NDS schema, as NDSPKI:Key Material.
server console	console du serveur	The monitor and keyboard where the network administrator views and controls server activity.
Server Consolidation Utility	Utilitaire de consolidation du serveur	A utility that helps you consolidate data and reorganize your network by moving data from any number of NetWare volumes (or directories within volumes) to another NetWare 5.1, 6.0, or 6.5 server; to a NetWare Cluster/SAN; or to multiple NetWare 6.0 or 6.5 servers. This means you have fewer servers to manage.
server enhancement module	module SEM (Server Enhancement Module)	SEM A NetWare Loadable Module NLM that provides the SoftSolutions server side when SoftSolutions is implemented under a client-server architecture. The SoftSolutions SEM server makes all the changes to the dataset files and handles all the search requests from client programs. The client, on the other hand, makes requests to the server, displays SoftSolutions menus, screens, and data, and handles user input.
server health	état de santé du serveur	In NetWare Remote Managet, an overall efficient functionality of the server.
server health monitor	moniteur d'état de santé	A utility for monitoring the overall efficient functionality of the server.
server holds	frais en attente sur le serveur	The Server Holds attribute contains the number of accounting charges pending while a server performs a chargeable action. While the charges are being held, this attribute value contains user identification and the number of charges that are on hold.
server id file	fichier ID du serveur	A Lotus Domino file with an .ID extension, used to hold certificates and to identify servers to servers and servers to users. The server ID is automatically generated at server installation and is certified by a certifier ID.
Server Management Services	Services de gestion de serveur	Novell specific term. Services for managing the server(s) producing several key values.
server manager	gestionnaire de serveur	An administrative utility found in NT Server. Others are: Administrative Wizard, Event Viewer, and System Policy Editor. The Server Manager utility is one of the main Windows NT Server administrative tools. It is used to manage computers and domains.
server memory pools summary	résumé des réserves de mémoire du serveur	A summary of the different types of memory repository "pool" on the server; there are several categories of memory, and they are tracked by their type; allocated from a specific pool, and returned to that pool when the memory is released.
server mirroring	mise en miroir de serveurs	An SFT III feature that provides an identical server to take over network operations if the primary server fails. Server mirroring requires two similarly configured servers; if they are unequal in terms of speed, memory, and storage capacity, server mirroring will perform at the lower servers level. The servers are directly connected by a mirrored server link, but they can reside on different network segments.
server object	objet Serveur	A Novell Directory Services (NDS) leaf object that represents a server.
server policy override	règle de serveur prioritaire	A server policy that takes precedence over any other server policy available
server referrals	adresses de renvoi du serveur	A set of addresses by which a server can be reached
server-based product	produit serveur	Products licensed to servers.
server-side application	application serveur	Application that runs on the server.
service	service	A task or operation made available through an appplication or systems program and that includes network services (or those that include file services to control file access and storage), print services, communications services, fax services, archive services, and backup services.
service access interface	interface d'accès aux services	A point that determines what happens between routers and the edge node or switch of the frame relay network.
service advertising protocol	protocole SAP	SAP A protocol used by NLM programs to inform clients of a servers presence. Servers advertise their services, by both name and type, with SAP, allowing routers to create and maintain a database of current internetwork server information. This information goes to all nodes on an IPX network.
service agreement	accord de service	A contract between a service provider and a customer that specifies the services the service provider will furnish.
service bureau	service bureau	A business that sells DTP and/or computer services such as scanning, colour printing, copying, and disk format conversion.
service information filter	filtre d'accès aux informations de service	A filter that restricts service access by excluding the packets that advertise the services. These filters keep applications from discovering the location of services, but do not restrict access to services if applications already know the locations of the services.
Service Location Protocol	SLP (Service Location Protocol)	A method for locating service information on a network. The Service Location Protocol (SLP) was standardized in the IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force) by the SVRLOC working group. It provides automatic client configuration for applications and advertisement for network services.
Service Packs	service packs	Terminology that makes reference to MS product or updates.
service provider	fournisseur de service	A company or individual or application component that provides access to a network or to another service.
service registry service	service de registre de services (SRS)	SRS  A brokered service in NDPS that allows public access printers to advertise themselves so that administrators and users can find them. This service maintains information about device type, device name, device address, and other device-specific information such as the manufacturer and model number.
service request	requête de service	A request sent within GroupWise system such as Busy Search or request from Remote client user.
Service Trigger	déclencheur de service	A Java Servlet or Enterprise Java Bean created when deploying a project from Composer.  It submits a Service to exteNd.Server for  execution.  A Service Trigger is also associated with an URI and converts inbound data into XML documents as input to the service it triggers.
services	services	Different services provided by Novell to its customers directly and via its authorized partners.
servlet	servlet	A small, server-based routine written in Java programming code.
servlet engine	moteur de servlet	An application server used to run Java servlet code on a web server.
session	session	A logical connection between two computers or other devices, including the communications exchanged between them while they are connected.
session file	fichier de session	
session layer	couche Session	The fifth of seven layers in the OSI model. The session layer allows dialog control between end systems.
session master	maître de session	In a multicast session, the image file or source computer from which an image is taken, sent over the wire to the other session participants (computers) and laid down on those computers.
Session mode	mode Session	In ZENworks for Desktops, an imaging mode that takes an image of one computer and places it on multiple other computers simultaneously over the network without eDirectory or ZENworks for Desktops server involvement. Also called Multicast mode.
session participant	participant à la session	In a multicast session, each of the target computers which receive the image that was taken from the source computer (or session master).
set	définir	To establish certain selectable parameters, formats, and preferences as defaults.
SET parameter	paramètre SET	In NetWare, a server operating system parameter that can be set from the server console, MONITOR's Available Options, or NetWare Remote Manager (in NetWare 5.1 and 6).
set up	configurer	To install and configure hardware or software.
setting	paramètre ; configuration	
settings	paramètres	Do you want to use settings in existing post office and domain startup files when creating new startup files?
setup	configuration	The configuration of hardware or software.
setup	programme d'installation	A program you run to install a software on your machine. The program's filename can be setup.exe or install.exe
Setup Advisor	assistant de configuration	An advisor that helps administrator create and configure GroupWise system.
Setup Wizard	assistant d'installation	Structured series of questions and options to guide users through the installation process.
Severability	Indépendance des Clauses	It is when a provision in a Beta Agreement is invalid or unenforceable and that provision is construed, limited, modified or, if necessary, severed, to the extent necessary, to eliminate its invalidity or unenforceability, and the other provisions of this Beta Agreement remain unaffected.
sh	sh	Initialism for "Shareable attribute."
sha	SHA (Secure Hash Algorithm, algorithme de hachage sécurisé)	secure hash algorithm
shadow file	fichier shadow	A shadow password file is a system file in which encryption user password are stored so that they aren't available to people who try to break into the system.
Shadow P&L	compte de résultat opérationnel	Internal P&L (Profit and Loss) accountability.
shadow ram	RAM fantôme	RAM in upper memory into which data and code can be copied from ROM. The RAM is given the same addresses as the ROM, so that in effect it shadows the ROM. Shadow RAM is used to describe any RAM in upper memory which can be used for shadowing ROM.
shallow copy	copie superficielle.	A shallow copy constructs a new compound object and then (to the extent possible) inserts references into it to the objects found in the original. Compare with deep copy.
share	partager	In GroupWise, to partake resources such as folders, address books, etc. by granting access to other GroupWise users.
share list	liste de partage	In the GroupWise client, a list of users who have shared access to the resource such as folder, document, etc.
share point	point de partage	A shared folder used to store information that needs to be accessed by several entities.
shareable	partageable	
shareable attribute	attribut Partageable	SH A file system attribute that allows the file to be used by more than one user at a time. It is usually set only for files with the Read Only attribute.
shared memory	mémoire partagée	
shareholder	actionnaire	One that owns or holds a share or shares of stock; a stockholder. Also called shareowner.
sharing	partage	
shell	shell	Software that serves as the interface between the user and the operating system.
shipping phase	phase de disponibilité	In Novell Support Life Cycle, the first of four phases a product goes through, the other ones being Maintenance, Mature, and Discontinued. The Shipping phase begins when a Novell product first becomes available for purchase. The support level provided is optimal (product planning, design, implementation and management, defect fixing)
shortage	manque	A deficiency in amount; an insufficiency.
shortcut	raccourci	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), a general term for a mouse gesture that simplifies filling out a dialog box. For example "As a shortcut, double-click an item in the Filename list box to select it and choose OK in one action."
shut down	arrêter	To quit all applications and turn off the computer. This term may apply to the software.
sibling	frère	A node in a data tree that is descended from the same parent as other nodes.
sick node	noeud à problème	Node in a network where a problem has occurred.
sign	signer	(This is the signature algorithm used by the Certificate Authority to sign this certificate)
sign on	se loguer	Log on to a machine or network
signal	signaler	To express, direct, or announce with a signal.
signature	signature	An approval of a filled-in form. A user signs a signature field in an electronic form by entering a password and user ID.
signature algorithm	algorithme de signature	The specification of the type of hash and type of encryption used to generate a signature. This information is specified in the certificate and is required to verify the certificate. Novell* PKI Services supports three signature algorithms:  RSA** encryption with an MD2 hash  ?RSA encryption with an MD5 hash  RSA encryption with an SHA1 hash
signing certificate	certificat de signature	Certificate revocation list has been checked successfully for the signing certificate.
signing level	niveau de signature	An indicator of the level of enforcement of error checking done on a network packet.  "Packet signing" is a common way of checking for errors; checksumming can be implemented several ways--quick and dirty, or slow and thorough.  The "level" of checksumming, then, is determined by the signing level.
silent mode	mode silencieux	An installation method. See "unattended mode."
simple mail transfer protocol	protocole SMTP	SMTP The standard protocol for sending and receiving electronic mail. SMPT provides specifications for mail system interaction and control message formats.
simple network management protocol	protocole SNMP	SNMP A TCP/IP protocol used for communicating between a network management console SNMP Manager and the devices the console manages. The protocol allows the SNMP Manager to gather information about the configuration and status of the TCP/IP protocol stacks of network nodes.
Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP)	SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol)	Protocol that enables web services to interact using HTTP TCP/IP
simplex	simplex	Refers to transmission in only one direction. Note the difference between simplex and half-duplex. Half-duplex refers to two-way communications where only one party can transmit at a time. Simplex refers to one-way communications where one party is the transmitter and the other is the receiver. An example of simplex communications is a simple radio, which you can receive data from stations but can't transmit data.
single reference time server	serveur horaire de référence unique	A server that provides time to secondary time servers and to client workstations. It is the sole source of time on the network.
single sign-on	Single Sign-on	Security project which allows people to login to several servers and services (such as Lotus Notes and PeopleSoft) with a single login.
single sign-on specification	spécification Single Sign-On	Specification regarding the login processes of a user. The user only needs to sign in once and will be cleared for all services and applications he/she is entitled to use.
single valued	à valeur unique	Describes a property that can have only one value.
single valued attributes	attributs à valeur unique	
single-mode fiber	fibre mono-mode	A fiber-optic cable with a narrow diameter in which only one mode propagates.
single-route broadcasting	diffusion à routage unique	Sending a frame through a network such that exactly one copy of the frame appears on each ring on the network.
singular policy	règle individuelle	A type of policy which lets you have only one effective policy at one time. The majority of policies offered in ZENworks are singular policies. The first policy found wins. Compare with "plural policy".
Site-to-site VPN	Réseau VPN site à site	Site-to-Site VPNs are an alternative WAN infrastructure that used to connect branch offices, home offices, or business partners' sites to all or portions of a company's network.
skeleton	élément paramétrable	supporting item created for a command or program
Skewness	asymétrie	An oblique or slanting asymmetry [syn: lopsidedness]
skin	habillage	An installable look-&-feel added to a program which changes its visual appearance but not its functionality. In other words, it is a customized GUI.
skip	ignorer	To pass from point to point, omitting or disregarding what intervenes.
skip intro	passer l'intro	A link on the web page to skip animated (usually Flash) intro.
skulk	synchronisation	The synchronization of two copies of the same partition so that all changes on each copy are exchanged and both copies have all possible changes.
skulker	contrôleur de synchronisation (skulker)	The background synchronization process. It checks the synchronization status of every server in the replica ring.
slave server	serveur esclave	A DNS server that answers queries from its primary server and cached data, but relies entirely on forwarders for external information. A slave server will not contact other servers if forwarders do not reply. A slave server can be a primary or secondary server for its authoritative data.
sleep	se mettre en veille	The inactive status of a terminal, device or program that is awakened by sending a code to it.
sleep mode	mode de mise en veille	1. A means of increasing the battery life of portable computers. When you are using your laptop and are running on battery power, the computer will "go to sleep," if you are not actively using it for some period of time. Effectively, the system "times out
slew, to	régler (l'heure) progressivement	In NTP, to adjust gradually the time of a clock until it tells the correct time. Compare with "step"
slot	connecteur	A socket on the system board into which adapter boards or interface cards can be installed.
SLP	SLP	Service Location Protocol. A method for locating service information on a network. The Service Location Protocol was standardized in the IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force) by the SVRLOC working group. It provides automatic client configuration for applications and advertisement for network services.
small business	PME	Business employing less than 50 people. This may vary in different countries. This also may vary by industry.
small computer systems interface	SCSI (Small Computer Systems Interface, interface système pour micro-ordinateurs)	SCSI  An industry standard that defines both hardware and software communications between a host computer and any peripheral devices such as hard drives or tape backup systems. Computers and peripheral devices designed to meet SCSI specifications have a large degree of compatibility.
small office network	réseau de petite entreprise	A business entity with less than 100 user nodes connected on a Local Area Network.
Smart Caching	caching intelligent	A caching mode that enables user to work from hard drive without maintaining a constant connection to the GroupWise server. With Smart Caching server requests can be decreased by up to 90 percent and server overhead by more than 50 percent, thereby reducing overall networking costs.
smart host	hôte intelligent	An SMTP mail hub or relay host that resends messages it receives that should go to another host.
smart stub	stub intelligent	A C++ object in a client that represents a remote object and its methods. You can customize a stub to intervene in every client invocation to a remote object. This capability is useful for a variety of purposes including load balancing, logging, and caching. The developer of smart stubs decides what actions a smart stub takes when it is invoked.
smart terminal	terminal intelligent	A terminal that has enough computing capability to render graphics or to offload some kind of front-end processing from the   computer it talks to. The development of workstations and personal computers has made this term and the product it describes semi-obsolescent, but one may still hear variants of the phrase `act  like a smart terminal' used to describe the behavior of workstations or    PCs with respect to programs that execute almost entirely out of a remote server's storage, using local devices as displays. 2. obs. Any terminal with an addressable cursor; the opposite of a glass tty.   Today, a terminal with merely an addressable cursor, but with none of    the more-powerful features mentioned in sense 1, is called a dumb terminal.
SMTP Incoming	SMTP entrant	A tab on the Edit Class of Service page of the GWIA snap-in for ConsoleOne where properties for incoming SMTP traffic can be set.
SMTP Outgoing	SMTP sortant	A tab on the Edit Class of Service page of the GWIA snap-in for ConsoleOne where properties for outgoing SMTP traffic can be set. Options available for selection are Inherit Access, Allow Outgoing Messages, Prevent Outgoing Messages, Prevent Messages Larger Than, and Allow Rule-Generated Messages.
snapin	snap-in	In software applications, a snap-in is a program designed to function as a modular component of another application. Examples of snap-ins include ConsoleOne Snap-ins shipped with different Novell products.
snap-in	snap-in	In software applications, a snap-in is a program designed to function as a modular component of another application. Examples of snap-ins include ConsoleOne Snap-ins shipped with different Novell products.
snap-in module	module de snap-in	A file that contains the snap-in code. See "snap-in."
snapshot	instantané	An NSS option that captures the most recently saved copy of a file. This file is retained as a backup for files that lose data in a crash.
SNMP	SNMP	Simple Network Management Protocol  A TCP/IP protocol used for communicating between a network management console (SNMP Manager) and the devices the console manages. The protocol allows the SNMP Manager to gather information about the configuration and status of the TCP/IP protocol stacks of network nodes.
SNMP service	service SNMP	Software component providing SNMP functionality
SNMP trap	trappe SNMP	An unsolicited message sent by a SNMP agent to a network management system that indicates the occurrence of a significant event.
socket	socket	A software structure that acts as a communications end point.  In an IPX network, the part of an IPX internetwork address, within a network node, that represents the destination of an IPX packet. Some sockets are reserved by Novell for specific applications. For example, IPX delivers all NCP request packets to socket 451h.
soft link	lien logique	A special type of Unix file which refers to another file by its pathname. Synonymous with "symbolic link"
soft stop policy	règle d'arrêt relatif	A policy type in a license certificate object, which informs users that they are out of compliance but allows them to continue using license units under certian conditions. Compare with "hard stop policy" and "no stop policy".
Software Development Kit	SDK (Software Development Kit)	SDK speeds the development of directory-based solutions for the enterprise and the Internet, making it easy for developers to incorporate the LDAP standard into their applications and leverage Novell's NDS® eDirectory™ to manage critical e-business relationships.
software distribution directory	répertoire de distribution de logiciels	The software distribution directory identifies the location where GroupWise files are stored. These files are used during the installation process to create domains, post offices, agents, and the client.
software distribution directory	répertoire de distribution de logiciels	A directory containing software that can be deployed, distributed to users.
software shim	module d'interface logiciel	1 Firewall/Plus gets its network isolation, like that found in proxy servers, from a unique Virtual Network Adapter Network Driver Interface Specification shim--a thin piece of software that inserts itself between various network layers. The shim is inser
software virtual server	serveur virtuel logiciel	Software virtual servers give you the ability to map a single IP address to multiple server names. Each software virtual server can have its own home page, which allows you to host multiple Web sites from one IP address.
solution	solution	A term that describes something that can be sold without bothering customer with the often dizzying distinctions between hardware, software, services, applications, file formats, companies, brand names and operating systems.
solution flyer	fiche de solution	A brochure describing a solution in a concise way.
solution flyer	fiche de solution	A concise marketing article about the solution.
sort	trier	To reorder data into a new sequence. The operating system can typically sort file names and text lists. Word processors typically allow lines of text to be reordered, and database programs sort records by one or more fields, often generating a new file.
source address	adresse source	SA. A packet header field whose value represents the address of the node sending the packet.
source routing	routage par la source	A bridging mechanism to route frames through multiple LANs by specifying in each frame the route that the frame will follow. To determine the route, the end stations use a discovery process supported by source route bridges.
source server	serveur source	The server from which data files, bindery files, and other information are migrated to a NetWare destination server during upgrade.
source service access point	point d'accès au service source	SSAP  The service access point SAP used at the local end of the logical link.
SOW	Ordre de Services (OS)	See "Statement of Work."
spanning	distribution	A technique for improving I/O performance by placing frequently used segments of a file system or database on separate disks.
spanning tree	arborescente recouvrante	An algorithm that ensures that only one bridge path between any two networks is active at a time. If a bridge path fails, another will be activated automatically.  A loop-free subset of a network topology connecting all the nodes.
sparse file	fichier épars	A file with at least one empty block. (NetWare won't write any block that is completely empty.) Databases often create sparse files.  For example, suppose the disk allocation block size for volume Vol1 is 4 KB. Also suppose that a database opens a new file, seeks out the 1,048,576th byte, writes five bytes, and closes the file. An inefficient operating system would save the entire file to disk.The file would be comprised of 256 zero-filled disk allocation blocks (the first 1 MB) and one more disk allocation block with five bytes of data and 4,091 zeros. This method would waste 1 MB of disk space. However, NetWare writes only the last block to disk, saving time and disk space.
sparse replica	réplique éparse	In eDirectory, a virtual replica that holds a subset of data (instead of replicating the entire data set). More particularly, it contains only the object classes you specify. Compare with fractional replica.
special use administrator	administrateur des utilisations spéciales	An NDS administrator role for servers not controlled by IS, such as those in a software engineering department.
Specialist Certificate	certificat de spécialiste	Specialist Certificates provide the product and solutions-focused training that enterprises and consultants need to implement Novell solutions. These certificates consist of only one course and one test that teach specific skills on Novell solutions.
spell check	vérifier l'orthographe	To identify possible misspellings in an item text by comparing the contents of the item with a database of accepted spellings.
spell checker	correcteur d'orthographe	A utility which checks a text for correct spelling
speller	correcteur d'orthographe	GroupWise client component that spell-checks the message text.
Spin Lock	verrou continu	A function that loops until a specified event occurs (until the mutex variable is acquired).
spinnerbox	compteur	More commonly known as "spin box": A numeric-entry field, with a pair of spin buttons to wind the contents up and down. The buttons will spin the field through pre-set value increments or decrements, but the user can jump by typing into the edit part if necessary.
splash screen	écran de démarrage	The temporary "logo" screen displayed by an application while the program is being launched by the operating system.
split brain	vues de grappe divergentes	A bad cluster situation in which nodes form mutually exclusive views of the cluster's state and act accordingly. For example, if someone accidentally pulls the Ethernet cord from one of the nodes within a cluster, such as node A, the latter is unable to send or hear heartbeat packets. The GIPC modules on nodes B and C detect node A's silence, and conclude that node A is dead. As a result of this mistaken view of the cluster's state, nodes B and C attempt to restart node A's resources. Likewise, the GIPC module on node A detects no heartbeat from nodes B and C and concludes that node A is the sole survivor in what must have been a cluster catastrophe. As a result of this lonely view of the cluster's state, node A attempts to restart all of the cluster's resources itself.
split brain detector	détecteur de vues de grappe divergentes	NCS avoids data corruption during conditions where multiple servers on the network try to mount the same volume of a failed node. This condition happens when normal inter-node conditions do not occur and separate nodes think that they are the only surviving members of a cluster. NCS has a mechanism called SPLIT BRAIN DETECTOR or SBD that avoids this situation for potential data corruption.
split horizon	split horizon	A routing technique used by distance vector routing protocols to reduce routing traffic on the network. With split horizon, information about routes is not propagated back to the same interface from which it was learned.
spoofing	simulation	the process of preserving the transport end point connection by imitating keep alive packets and responding to watchdog request packets without passing this traffic across on-demand WAN links. Using SPX spoofing can help you maintain lower costs over on-demand WAN links.
spool	spouler	To spool (which stands for "simultaneous peripheral operations online") a computer document or task list (or "job") is to read it in and store it, usually on a hard disk or larger storage medium so that it can be printed or otherwise processed at a more convenient time (for example, when a printer is finished printing its current document). One can envision spooling as reeling a document or task list onto a spool of thread so that it can be unreeled at a more convenient time.
spool directory	répertoire de spoul	A directory used for spooling. Spooling refers to putting jobs in a buffer, a special area in memory or on a disk where a device can access them when it is ready. See also "spool" term.
spooler	spouleur	1. An application that lets you work while you wait for a document to print. When you print, the document information is sent immediately to the spooler, and the spooler feeds the information to the printer as soon as the printer is ready.  2. A program that routes print jobs to a temporary storage area (RAM or disk) and prints when the CPU is idle. Often used in multiuser systems.  3. A print spooler provides a queueing system for files you want to print. This way files can be printed while your computer performs other tasks.
Spooling	spouling	Print management (simultaneous peripheral operation on line)
SPX	SPX	Sequenced Packet Exchange. A protocol by which two workstations or applications communicate across the network. SPX uses NetWare IPX to deliver the messages, but SPX guarantees delivery of the messages and maintains the order of messages on the packet stream
SSL	SSL	Secure Sockets Layer. A protocol used to encrypt data for transmission over the Internet.
stack	pile	A set of hardware registers or a reserved amount of memory used for arithmetic calculations or to keep track of internal operations. Stacks keep track of the sequence of routines called in a program.
staging directory	répertoire provisoire	A temporary directory where GroupWise stores documents while users have them open. When user closes a document, GroupWise removes the document from the staging directory.
staging server	serveur provisoire	A server used during NetWare 5 Accelerated Upgrade as a temporary holding place for operating system CD-ROM files. A target server logs in to the staging server, accesses the CD-ROM files, copies them, and then uses these copied files to update its existing software
standard	norme ; standard	A set of rules or procedures agreed upon by industry participants.
standard discussion group	groupe de discussion standard	A standard discussion group provides a two-paned interface in  which the user can view all of the articles within a particular  discussion group and the text of a particular article.
standard time	heure légale	Civil time used within a given time zone. The earth is divided into 24 time zones, each of which is about 15° of longitude wide and corresponds to one hour of time. Within a zone all civil clocks are set to the same local solar time. Adjacent zones typically differ by a whole hour, although there are instances, such as in Newfoundland and South Australia, of half-hour zones. Standard time is based on universal time.
standards-based	basé sur les standards	Brought into conformity with standards.
standout	standout	A display mode that shows characters as standout.
star network	réseau en étoile	A star network is one where workstations are connected directly to a NetWare server but not to each other. ARCnet is an example of a star network.
start address	adresse de début	Aka "starting address". In an IP address range, the IP address designating the start of the range.
start date	date de début	In the GroupWise client, the start date of a task or other scheduled items.
start time	heure de début	The Start Time of an appointment.
starter pack	Starter Pack	pack of sofware to be installed.
starting address	adresse de début	Aka "start address". In an IP address range, the IP address designating the start of the range.
startup	démarrage	In the Common Desktop Environment (CDE), a control in the Startup dialog box in Style Manager that is used to specify logout confirmation information and to set the home session.
startup disk	disque de démarrage	A disk with all the necessary program files?such as the Finder and System files contained in the System Folder for the Macintosh workstation?to set the computer into operation. A startup disk is sometimes called a boot disk.
startup file	fichier de démarrage	A file for program component that loads the component and may contain startup parameters and other startup information for the component.
statBean	statBean	A Java class used by Novell Portal Services to implement statistics tracking. Example of statBean classes (or statBeans) are PortalUptimeStatBean,  PortalLoggedinUserStatBean and PortalAccessStatBean.
state or province	Région/Province	Short for "State or Province property."
stateful	avec état	Having the capability to maintain state. Most common applications are inherently stateful. Stateful and stateless are adjectives that describe whether a computer or computer program is designed to note and remember one or more preceding events in a given sequence of interactions with a user, another computer or program, a device, or other outside element. Stateful means the computer or program keeps track of the state of interaction, usually by setting values in a storage field designated for that purpose. (Source: Network Security Glossary)
stateful filtering	filtrage avec état	An advanced firewall architecture providing enhanced security by keeping track of communications packets over a period of time. Both incoming and outgoing packets are examined. Outgoing packets that request specific types of incoming packets are tracked; only those incoming packets constituting a proper response are allowed through the firewall.
stateful inspection	inspection avec état	Also referred to as dynamic packet filtering. Stateful inspection is a firewall architecture that works at the network layer. Unlike static packet filtering, which examines a packet based on the information in its header, stateful inspection tracks each c
statement of work	Ordre de Services	SOW. Detailed description of contract deliverables and the purpose of creating them.
static routing	routage statique	A method for updating entries in a routing table. When used as a configuration option in the TCP/IP Protocol Configuration menu, Static Routing is set to Enabled to update the table whenever the server starts or is reinitialized.
station address	adresse de la machine	A number that uniquely identifies a network board; usually referred to as the node number.
status	propriété d'état	Short for "Status property."
status flag	drapeau d'état	An attribute that specifies status information for the file. It is similar to a file attribute, but its value is set by the NetWare file system.
status tracking	suivi de l'état	In GroupWise, getting message status information (such as whether a message has been delivered, opened, and so on).
steganography	stéganographie	The practice of hiding one piece of information within another. One example is putting an invisible digital watermark in a digitized photograph.
stem name-only directory	répertoire racine à réplication nominale	A directory that is excluded from replication and synchronization, but whose name appears in a replication tree because the directory is located in the path between the root of the volume and an included directory.
step	étape	In GroupWise WorkFlow, an action item sent to individuals or groups who will participate in the workflow. When creating a workflow, each step is assigned using one or more e-mail IDs. Ensemble delivers the steps to each person in their e-mail inbox.
step, to	régler (l'heure) instantanément	In NTP, to change the time of a clock to the correct time with no intermediate adjustments. Compare with slew.
step-into	commande "step into"	Step Into is a debugger command that causes the debugger to execute the current line and then stop at the next processing line.
step-over	commande "step over"	Step Over debugger command executes the current line, including any functions called by the current line.
sticky connection	connexion persistante	A technique available in some load balancers which attempts to ensure that a client is always directed back to the same server for requests within a given time period. (source: http://www.rpanetwork.co.uk/wp/app-reliability/app.rhtm)
stitching	couture	A method of securing the leaves or sections of a book with wire staples, from front to back of the entire thickness of the text block.
Stock Keeping Unit (SKU)	code de stockage (SKU)	A unique identification Number associated to a product in the shipping product list
stock ticker	symbole	Interactive content on a Web site that shows the Stock Market status.
stop	arrêter	In the Common Desktop Environment CDE  1 A menu item used to end a process and remove a window.  2 In File Manager A push button used to terminate a lengthy process.
stop bit	bit d'arrêt	A signal that indicates where one character stops and another starts. Communication programs normally add one, or sometimes two, stop bits on the end of each character.
stop policy	règle d'arrêt	A policy in a license certificate object. The terms and conditions of the license agreement determine which policy is in place for the licensed product. Examples of stop policies are the hard stop policy, the soft stop policy, and the no stop policy (see these terms)
stop-words	mots vides	Adverbs, conjunctions, prepositions, or forms of 'to be' that are often used in search queries. Stop-words pollute searches, making search results less accurate. By enabling stop-words processing on a virtual search server, all defined stop-words are ignored.
storage adapter	adaptateur de disque	An adapter for a storage device, such as a hard drive or a CD ROM drive.
storage area	zone de stockage	A physical location, such as a drive volume, an optical device, a hard drive on other servers, etc., where documents can be stored to bypass storing them at the post office.
Storage area network (SAN)	SAN (Storage Area Network)	archiving network
storage device driver	pilote de périphérique de stockage	A software that controls the operation of a storage device attached to a compatible host adapter.
Storage Management Data Requester	Requêteur de données de gestion de stockage (SMDR)	SMDR  The Storage Management Services (SMS) module responsible for passing commands and data between SBACKUP, Target Service Agents (TSAs), and the Storage Device Interface (SDI).
Storage Management Services	Services de gestion de stockage (SMS)	A collection of software programs by Novell® that enable a user to back up or restore the NDS database, the file system, or an individual workstation's hard disk.  The SMS architecture is independent of backup/restore hardware and file systems and provides an interface to all storage devices, including tape, optical, and jukebox.
store catalog	catalogue de stockage	Refers to the guardian database NWGUARD.DB, a "catalog" where records from all other GroupWise databases (e.g., user databases, domain database, etc.) are stored for backup/safety purposes.
store-and-forward message transfer service	service de transfert de messages	A service made up of a number of distributed message transfer agents; Operating together, the MTAs relay the messages and deliver them to the intended recipient UAs (User Agent), which then make the messages available to the recipient (user).
Strategic Enterprise Agreement	Accord SEA	The Strategic Enterprise Agreement is designed specifically for large government departments that are dedicated to reducing TCO (total cost of ownership) by addressing each of the key software cost areas. The key software cost areas include, streamlining the software acquisition process, reducing software tracking and non-compliance, attractive software pricing for core Novell products, single annual per workstation fee and a comprehensive software maintenance program covering upgrades to new releases and premium technical support services.
stream	flux	The name given to a second-level file which has been opened for data transmission. When a stream is opened, a pointer to a FILE structure is returned. This pointer is used to reference the stream when other functions are subsequently invoked.  A full-duplex connection between a users task and a device. The stream can include an encapsulated processing module. The TCP/IP stream service does not support structured data streams.
Streaming	lecture en continu	Playing audio or video immediately as it is downloaded from the Internet, rather than storing it in a file on the receiving computer first. Streaming is accomplished by way of web browser plug-ins, which decompress and play the file in real time; a fast computer and fast connection are necessary.
stretch cluster	grappe étendue	A stretch cluster consists of one cluster in which the nodes in the cluster are located in geographically separate areas. All nodes in the cluster must be in the same eDirectoryTM tree. In this architecture, the data is mirrored between two data centers that are geographically separated. All the machines in both data centers are part of one cluster, so that if a disaster occurs in one data center, the other automatically takes over.
string	chaîne	In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, a contents type used to identify a contents pattern in a Create Action data-type definition as a literal string. String is specified in Create Action: Advanced Functions: Add Data Type: Edit: Identifying Characteristics dialog box:.
stripe	segmenter	To spread data in equal amounts across mulitple physical storage devices using a RAID virtual storage device in order to improve network performance.
strong encryption	codage fort	A method of encrypting data with an encryption key of longer than 40 bits, with the aim of making it practically impossible to decrypt data unless you know the key. Strong encryption is exponentially more powerful than normal encryption (ie 40-bit encryption).
structural rebuild	reconstruction structurelle	In GroupWise Mailbox/Library Maintenance, an operation/option used to reconstruct a database.
structure check	vérification structurelle	In GroupWise Mailbox/Library Maintenance, an operation/option that verifies the integrity of the databases and reports the amount of space that could be recovered.
stub area	zone stub	The area where the area border router (ABR) advertrises itself as the default router to all external destinations. That happens when there is only one ABR for an area and all routes to destinations outside of the area must pass through the single router.
stub network	réseau stub	An Internet protocol IP network segment that uses a subset of an existing parent network address.  The parent network and the stub network are separated by a router. An example is a parent network with an address range of 89.0.0.1 to 89.255.255.254 and a stub network with an address range of 89.1.0.1 to 89.1.255.254.  Also called "stub subnetwork."
stylized view	vue stylisée	A view that contains stylistic display of objects.
suballocation	sous-allocation	Process that saves disk space by allowing data to be stored in small blocks.
subdirectory	sous-répertoire	A directory contained within another directory, sometimes called the parent directory.
subject	objet	Item's subject matches subject to delete
sublicense	sous-licence	A license giving rights of production or marketing of products or services to a person or company that is not the primary holder of such rights.
submit	soumettre	On a web page, the button or link which will post/send any information entered on the page.
subnet	sous-réseau	The portion of the network backbone that shares a common address component and that is partitioned by repeaters, bridges, or routers.
subnet address mask	masque de sous-réseau	A filter that selects bits from an Internet address to create a subnet. More commonly called a "subnet mask."
subnet addressing	adressage de sous-réseau	The process of locally extending the network address portion of an IP address by using a subnet mask.  As an IP network grows, each segment requires a separate IP address. By using subnet addressing, a network administrator can create an address for each new segment of the organizations network, based on the Internet address already in use.
subnet mask	masque de sous-réseau	A 32-bit number that defines how many bits in the IP address identify the network and how many bits identify the host. A "1" indicates that a bit identifies the network; a "0" indicates that a bit identifies a host. A subnet mask locally extends the network address portion of an IP address.
subnet(work) mask	masque de sous-réseau	
subnet(work) pool	réserve de sous-réseaux	It enables the DHCP server to assign addresses to multiple logical networks on a single physical network. A subnet pool groups logical networks.
subnetwork	sous-réseau	The portion of the network backbone that shares a common address component and that is partitioned by repeaters, bridges, or routers.
sub-network access protocol	protocole SNAP	SNAP
subnetwork addressing	adressage de sous-réseau	The process of locally extending the network address portion of an IP address by using a subnet mask.  As an IP network grows, each segment requires a separate IP address. By using subnet addressing, a network administrator can create an address for each new segment of the organizations network, based on the Internet address already in use.
subnetwork mask	masque de sous-réseau	A 32-bit number that defines how many bits in the IP address identify the network and how many bits identify the host. A "1" indicates that a bit identifies the network; a "0" indicates that a bit identifies a host. A subnet mask locally extends the network address portion of an IP address.
subnetworking	découpage d'un réseau en sous-réseaux	The process of locally extending the network address portion of an IP address by using a subnet mask.
subordinate	subordonné	Having a lower or less important position.
subordinate object	objet subordonné	Any NDS object that is below another object in the NDS tree. For example, a leaf object is a subordinate object to its parent container, a file is a subordinate object to its parent directory, and an Organizational Unit is subordinate to its parent Organization.
subordinate reference (replica)	référence subordonnée (réplique)	Subordinate reference replicas are system-generated replicas that don't contain all the object data of a master or a read/write replica. They are internal pointers that are generated to contain enough information for eDirectory to resolve object names across partition boundaries. Sometimes also referred to as "Subref".
subordinate replica	réplique subordonnée	
subscriber	abonné	A person or company who has telephone service provided by a phone company. In other industries, subscribers are called customers. Some telephone companies are beginning to call their subscribers customers.
subscriber	canal Abonné	Channel that receives data from the DirXML engine, converts it to the external application format, and sends it to the external application. The subscriber sends data from eDirectory to the external application.
subscriber command transformation	objet Transformation de la commande du canal Abonné	The object containing the definition of transform actions used on commands sent to eDirectory by the DirXML engine.
subset	sous-ensemble	A group of commands or functions that do not include all the capabilities of the original specification.
subsidiary	filiale	A company having more than half of its stock owned by another company.
success story	success stories	An article about the customer success.
Suite License	licence de suite	A license that applies to a suite of products. If Your license to use the Software is for a suite of products, then only one user may use all products in the suite (unless otherwise indicated by the Software). The suite license does not allow use of individual products in the suite by multiple users.
Summary stylesheet	feuille de style récapitulative	A stylesheet that defines a summary of document.
supervisor	superviseur	Usually called "network administrator" in NetWare.  The person responsible for setting up and maintaining the network. The network administrator has the Supervisor right to create and manage objects in the NDS tree.   Generally, this means the person who has a trustee assignment to the [Root] object of the NDS tree, which would include the Supervisor rights to the entire NDS tree. However, the specific part of the NDS tree where this person has rights can vary from network to network.
supervisor	superviseur	Usually called "network administrator" in NetWare.  The person responsible for setting up and maintaining the network. The network administrator has the Supervisor right to create and manage objects in the NDS tree.   Generally, this means the person who has a trustee assignment to the [Root] object of the NDS tree, which would include the Supervisor rights to the entire NDS tree. However, the specific part of the NDS tree where this person has rights can vary from network to network.
supervisor equivalent	équivalent superviseur	
Supervisor right	droit Superviseur	S. A NetWare file system right that grants all rights to a directory or file. Also, an NDS object right that grants all rights to an object (including all its properties). Also, an NDS property right that grants all rights to a specific property. The Supervisor right can be blocked by an inherited rights filter (IRF) on an object or property, but it cannot be blocked by an IRF on a directory or file.
Supplemental Novell License Agreement	Accord de Licence Novell Supplémentaire	It is a legal agreemnet between an entity or a person and Novell, Inc. that comes included with the software.
Supplier eProvisioning	Solution d'eProvisioning Fournisseurs	Novell eProvisioning solution
supply chain	chaîne d'approvisionnement	Supply Chain refers to the distribution channel of a product, from its sourcing, to its delivery to the end consumer (also known as the value chain). The supply chain is typically comprised of multiple companies who are increasingly coordinating activities via an extranet or using other IT solution.
support	support; prise en charge	
support life cycle product forecast	liste prévisionnelle des produits à discontinuer	In Novell Support, a list of products forecast to be discontinued and their current phase
Support Pack	Support Pack	SP. An orderable or downloadable update to a Novell product that fixes existing problems and, in some cases, delivers product enhancements.
support services	services de support	Professional services provided by Novell Technical Support.
supported connections	connexions prises en charge	Short for "Supported Connections property."   The Supported Connection property or attribute identifies the number of concurrent connections a server allows.
supported gateway	passerelle prise en charge	A protocol supported by a Messaging Server object. For example, an administrator can add the SNADS and X.400 protocols to the messaging server as supported gateways.
supported services	services pris en charge	Short for "Supported Services property."   The Supported Services property or attribute contains a list of services the associated object supports.
supported typefaces	polices prises en charge	Short for "Supported Typefaces property". The Supported Typefaces property or attribute identifies the typefaces supported by a printer. Multiple typefaces are usually represented as multiple values.
suppress	suspendre	In word processing, to suspend a header, a footer, or a page number for a single page only. The suppressed feature then reappears on the next page.
surface test	test de surface	In NetWare, a test run by the NWCONFIG (INSTALL in NetWare 4.x and earlier) program to search a hard disks NetWare partition for bad blocks.
surname	nom	
SuSE	SuSE	SUSE LINUX is the Novell LINUX distribution. SUSE was one of the first distributions to hide the LINUX concepts from the user as much as possible. Much of the configuration can be done with a GUI interface (YAST2) to ease the change for Windows users.
suspicious ticks	cycles d'horloge suspects	A tick is like the second hand of a clock. A certain number of ticks have to pass before one node will suspect another node has failed. This total time is called suspicious ticks.
swap	échange	Replacing one segment of a program in memory with another and restoring it back to the original when required. In virtual memory systems, it is called "paging."
swap file	fichier d'échange	A file created to hold data swapped out of memory and stored on disk. In the NetWare virtual memory system, there is one swap file for the sys volume. The user can create one swap file for each additional volume on the server.
swap-in rate	taux d'introduction en mémoire	Number of processes being swapped into memory, per second. (source: http://www.wilsonmar.com/1perfmon.htm)
swap-out rate	taux d'extraction de la mémoire	Number of processes being swapped out from memory, per second (Source: http://www.wilsonmar.com/1perfmon.htm)
switch	paramètre	1.An option that modifies the way in which the computer carries out a command.  2. A DOS option used with a program command, separated from the command with a slash /. For example, in the command DIR/P the /p switch pauses the display of the directory list every 24 lines.
switch block	bloc de commutation	A set of switches mounted to form a single component. In some NetWare servers, a switch block is used to control system configuration data, such as type of monitor, amount of memory, and number of drives. Some network boards use switch blocks to set system addresses such as station, base I/O, and base memory addresses.
sy	sy	Initialism for "System attribute."
symbolic link	lien symbolique	A link that creates a connection similar to a hard link between an existing file or directory and a new filename. Unlike a hard link, a symbolic link can point to a file on a different file system. Significantly, there is no requirement that the file server guarantee the integrity of a symbolic link. Rather, it need only store a name that can be manipulated by the client. If you remove the original file, the system does not automatically remove the link to it. Also known as "soft link". Compare with "hard link"
symmetric multiprocessing	multitraitement symétrique	SMP  A system in which all processors can perform all tasks. At runtime, an algorithm assigns tasks to each processor as necessary to balance the work load. A symmetric multiprocessing system is the opposite of an asymmetric system, in which different processors are dedicated to different kinds of tasks.
Symmetrical Multi-Processing NetWare	Symmetrical Multi-Processing NetWare	
sync client	client de sync	ZENworks for Handhelds sync client. In ZENworks for Handhelds, the software that manages Palm OS and Windows CE devices that use third-party software (Palm HotSync or Microsoft ActiveSync, for example) instead of IP to synchronize.
synchronization	synchronisation	A means of ensuring that replicas of an NDS partition contain the same information as other replicas of that partition. Replica synchronization updates the replicas and runs periodically at a cycle controlled by the network administrator.
synchronization clash	synchronisation conflictuelle	The situation that occurs during synchronization when a change made on a replica server conflicts with a change already made to the same file system object on the master server. Two users making changes to the same file will result in a clash, for example, as will a user making changes to a replica of a protected master server.
synchronization point	point de synchronisation	A point where the normally asynchronous execution of a thread is synchronized (that is, modifies variables used for synchronization) with the execution of others. For example, code accessing a data structure would have a synchronization point wherever it examines or modifies shared data
synchronize	synchroniser	Unable to synchronize document security
synchronized pass-through login	login direct synchronisé	A login method whereby the Novell login dialog does not display to the user, or in other words, the user passes through the ZfD management Agent and authenticates to the location of ZfD files. He/she simply enters his/her local Windows logon credentials at the Windows login dialog. The ZfD Management Agent, although not visible, passes the Windows workstation credentials to the Middle Tier Server, which checks the credentials against eDirectory users, and authenticates to eDirectory if there is a match. Thus, the user is authenticated to eDirectory, which points to policy files that can be passed to the workstation where the user is logged in.
Synchronizing user identity	Synchronisation d'identité d'utilisateur	Feature that ensures that the privileges and access rights of the user are always updated.
synchronous	synchrone	Describes a mode of data transfer in which information is transmitted in blocks frames of bits separated by equal time intervals.
syntax	syntaxe	The rules for organizing elements in an operation. For example, equation and macro commands require a certain correct syntax or organization for them to function properly.
synthetic time	heure synthétique	A time stamp issued to NDS when the time on the server is changed and no longer matches the time stamp of the partition. NDS uses synthetic time to prevent objects from being time-stamped incorrectly.
SYS: volume	volume SYS:	The first volume created during NetWare server installation, containing the SYSTEM, PUBLIC, LOGIN, MAIL, DELETED.SAV, and ETC directories.
system	système	Sy  Short for "system attribute."
system address book	carnet d'adresses système	An address book that includes all users who have a GroupWise Mailbox in this GroupWise system.
system administrator	administrateur système	A person who is responsible for the daily operation and maintenance of the network system, including planning future expansions, installing new hardware and software, adding and removing users, backing up the system, assigning and changing passwords, monitoring system performance, and training users.
system attribute	attribut système	Sy  A file or directory attribute that reserves the file or directory for operating-system use and prevents it from being deleted, renamed, or copied.
system console screen	écran de la console système	
system crash	crash système	The complete failure of a computer system.
system fault tolerance	tolérance aux pannes système	SFT  A means of protecting data by providing procedures that allow a network server to automatically recover from hardware failures. SFT protects data by providing data duplication on multiple storage devices; if one storage device fails, the data is available from another device.  There are three levels of SFT: Hot Fix, disk mirroring or duplexing, and server mirroring. Each level of redundancy duplication decreases the possibility of data loss.
system id	ID système	A unique, 6-byte hexadecimal number that identifies a NetWare Link Services Protocol NLSP router.
system independent data format	format de données indépendant du système	SIDF  A Novell standard for data interchange. SBACKUP uses this format. All data backed up using SBACKUP can be read by other backup applications that read and write SIDF.
system key pass-through	transposition des touches système	A ZENworks option that passes keystrokes reserved for Windows, such as Alt+Tab, to the managed workstation. When this option is enabled, all system keystrokes affect only the managed workstation, not the (admin) workstation it is being managed from.
system login script	script de login système	In NetWare 2 and NetWare 3, a type of login script that sets general environments for all users. In NetWare 4 and later versions, the container login script replaces the system login script.
System Management	Gestion des systèmes	A NetWare service for simplifying and reducing the costs of managing your business system platforms.
system memory	mémoire système	The RAM between 640 KB and 1,024 KB that provides space for system use including video adapters and other devices. System memory is sometimes called high DOS memory, high memory, high memory area HMA, or upper memory.
system policy editor	éditeur de règles système	An administrative utility found in NT Server. Others are: Administrative Wizard, Server Manager, and System Policy Editor. The System Policy Editor is used to control which settings can and cannot be set by a user or a group. It is a Registry Editor. Changes a user makes with the System Policy Editor are automatically applied to the Registry.
system prompt	invite système	The display on the screen that shows you the operating system is ready to receive a command. The standard system prompt can be changed by using the PROMPT command.
system redundancy	redondance du système	The duplication of key system components in order to protect against failure.
system requirements	configuration système requise	A link on/to the product information page.
system tray	barre système	
systems network architecture	architecture SNA (System Network Architecture)	SNA  A structure defining how computer equipment connects and communicates. SNA specifies the logical structure, formats, protocols, and operational sequences for transmitting information units by controlling the configuration and operation of networks. The SNA model includes the application, presentation, data flow control, transmission control, path control, data link, and physical functional layers.
t	t	Initialism for "Transactional attribute."
tab	tabulation	The key on the computer keyboard that advances the cursor one tab setting to the right in word processing programs.
tab	onglet	A small flap used for quick access that projects out from the end of a page of paper or file folder.  Its electronic equivalent on screen can be clicked to gain access to a function.
tag	balise	In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, a text string that marks the beginning or end of an element in Help. A start tag consists of a left angle bracket < followed by a special character string consisting of only letters, optional parameters and values, and terminated by a right angle bracket >. An end tag consists of a left angle bracket <, a backslash \, the same special character string, and a right angle bracket >.
Tandem Connection Resource	ressource de connexion Tandem	A Connection Resource for the Tandem Component.
Tandem User Interface Component Editor	éditeur du composant d'interface utilisateur Tandem	An interface that allows a user to extend any XML integration you are building to include any of your business applications that  support Tandem-based terminal interactions.
tape backup device	périphérique de sauvegarde sur bande	A tape drive, either internal or external, that backs up data from hard disks.
Tar (Tape ARchive)	Tar (archive Tar)	A file packaging tool included with UNIX/Linux for the purpose of assembling a collection of files into one combined file for easier archiving. It was originally designed for tape backup, but today can be used with other storage media. When run by itself, it produces files with a .tar extension. When combined with Gzip, for data compression, the resulting file extensions may be .tgz, .tar.gz or .tar.Z.
Tarball	Tarball	A file created by the Tar utility, containing one or more other archived and, optionally, compressed files.  Tarball is a jargon term for a tar archive - a group of files collected together as one. The term suggests a ball of tar, the sticky coal derivative used as an adherent and sealant in roofing and other construction work. Tar (for Tape ARchive) is a Unix command that creates a single file called an archive from a number of specified files or extracts (separates) the files from such an archive. A tar archive has the file suffix .tar. The files in a tar archive are not compressed, just gathered together in one file.
target server	serveur cible	A network server from which you back up data or to which you store data. It typically receives data from another device on the network.
target service agent	Agent de service cible (TSA)	TSA  A program that processes the data moving between a specific target and a Storage Management Services (SMS) backup engine such as SBACKUP.
task	tâche	In computer programming, a task is a basic unit of programming that an operating system controls. Depending on how the operating system defines a task in its design, this unit of programming may be an entire program or each successive invocation of a program.
task	tâche	One of GroupWise item types which lets users place a to-do item on their own or on another person’s Tasks List. A due date for the task can be scheduled and a priority (such as A1) can be included. Uncompleted tasks are carried forward to the next day.
task	tâche	In iManager, an administrative function or specific responsibility the administrator can assign to a user.  Tasks are grouped in so-called "roles".  What users see when they access Novell iManager is based on their role assignments in Novell eDirectoryTM.  Only the tasks assigned to the authenticated user are displayed.
task builder	générateur de tâches	An iManager feature which takes the user through the steps of building custom tasks.
task list	liste des tâches	A Find Results folder that shows you all user's tasks regardless of which folders they are in.
task manager	gestionnaire de tâches	The Novell DOS program that manages multitasking and task switching.
task number	numéro de tâche	A unique number that identifies an individual program, running at any given time at a workstation. Task numbers are only unique for a given workstation.
task switching	commutation de tâches	The ability to switch between applications. The application that you have switched to most recently is the only one that runs; tasks you have switched from are suspended in the background until you switch back to them.
task-switching support software	logiciel de prise en charge de la commutation de tâches	The tb12.com and taskid.com files that act as a buffer and manager between IPX and SPX requests and an applications calling process in a task-switching environment.   For example, when switching DOS sessions within Windows in standard or real mode, having task-switching support software installed ensures that IPX and SPX transport protocols send all application calls to the proper network resource. In this example, without task-switching software, a client workstation could experience session failure.
tcb	tcb	Transmission Control Block
TCP/IP	TCP/IP	Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol. A protocol suite and related applications originally developed for the U.S. Department of Defense. It includes TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) as the primary transport protocol and IP (Internet Protocol) as the network layer protocol. Using TCP/IP, different types of computers can communicate and exchange information.
tcp/ip support	prise en charge TCP/IP	
tcp/ip transport software	logiciel de transport TCP/IP	Software residing in the operating system, including a set of device drivers. These drivers have an interface with the MLID/ODI drivers at the bottom layer, and support the Berkeley socket APIs at the top layer.
tcp/ip trap handler	gestionnaire de trappes TCP/IP	
Technical information document	document d'informations techniques (TID)	
Technical Support	support technique	Service for customers that is provided by computer vendors and hardware and software manufacturers, usually by telephone or email.
technical support incident	incident de support technique	A term used by Novell Technical Support and in Service Agreements. Assistance with one issue, problem, or question relating to the use or installation of a Novell product, regardless of the number of communications required.
technical support incident	incident de support technique	An event requiring help of technical specialist.
telephone	téléphone	Short for "Telephone property."
tell a friend	envoyer à un ami	A link on the web page that allows to send the page or a link to the page via e-mail.
Telnet	Telnet	A protocol in the TCP/IP suite that governs character-oriented terminal traffic. Telnet supports character terminals, block terminals, and graphics terminals. It is used for remote login on an Internet network.
template	modèle	Cache Templates
template key	clé de modèle	A setting that provides a means for eGuide to treat similar attributes from different LDAP directories the same even though they have different names in their respective directories. For example, if one LDAP directory uses "lastname" and another uses "sn" for the attribute containing users’ last names, you could create a template key name, such as LastName, and map both the LastName and SN attributes to that same key name.
template key name	nom de clé de modèle	A name used to map two similar attributes from different LDAP directories so they can be treated the same. For example, if one LDAP directory uses "lastname" and another uses "sn" for the attribute containing users’ last names, you could create a template key name, such as LastName, and map both the LastName and SN attributes to that same key name.
template object	objet Modèle	In the NDS tree, a leaf object that provides a base set of properties and setup procedures for creating new user accounts. It cant be used to apply changes to existing users. When a new User object is created based on a Template object, the properties of the Template object are copied to the new User object.
temporary file	fichier temporaire	A file that can be erased when it is not needed any more, as contrasted with a permanent file.
tentative	Possible	In the GroupWise client, a Show Appointment level of availability that means the user will probably attend the appointment, but that dependencies or other factors could prevent user's going. Other levels of availability are Free, Busy, and Out of Office.
terminal	terminal	A device consisting of a keyboard and screen, used for communicating with the main processor in a computing system.
terminate and stay resident	programme résident	TSR  A program running in DOS that remains loaded in memory even when it is not running. They run while other applications are displayed on the screen. In the Mac world they are called "Inits". Examples are screen savers and disk cache programs.
termination	terminaison	Placing a terminating resistor at the end of a bus, line, chain, or cable to prevent signals from being reflected or echoed. Data signals travel along a cable or bus that is in many ways analogous to a pipe. You must terminate the end components to ensure that the signal doesnt echo back along the cable or bus and cause corruption.?
terminator	terminateur	A device used in Ethernet and ARCnet bus topologies for the electrical resistance at the end of the transmission line to absorb the signals and keep them from bouncing back.
terms and conditions	termes contractuels	The section of a legal document in which legal details of liability and responsibility are spelled out.
test drive	faire un essai pilote	To evaluate the functionality or performance of something such as a software application by loading it and trying it out in a real working environment.  This allows engineers to determine if the approach they are taking in their design work is valid.
test secret	secret test	Novell* SecretStore* reads and writes secrets. The Run SS Test feature enables you to find out whether SecretStore is functional.  By default, when you run SS Test from the main window , SecretStore Manager creates five enhanced-protected secrets in SecretStore.
text editor	éditeur de texte	A program that lets you create and modify text for program code.
text file	fichier texte	1. A file saved in ASCII DOS or ANSII Windows file format. It contains text, spaces, and returns, but no formatting codes.  2. A file composed of ASCII text characters encoded in a format most computers can read.
text utility	utilitaire de texte	One of two main types of utilities available on NetWare 4.0 software, the other being graphical utilities. There are two categories of text utilities: command line utilities and menu utilities.
the #1 network for internet-enabled businesses	le premier réseau qui facilite les applications sur Internet	Splash screen for NetWare 5 ConsoleOne. Its a bitmap.
The leading provider of Net Business Solutions	premier fournisseur de solutions Net Business	Information displayed in all Novell Press Releases: About Novell
thick net	câble coaxial épais; thicknet	The original IEEE 10 Mbps Ethernet standard which uses a thick coaxial cable. Network nodes are attached via transceivers that tap into the cable and provide a line to a 15-pin plug in the adapter card known as the AUI interface. Also called "thick Ethernet," "ThickWire" and "ThickNet," 10Base5 has a distance limit of 1,640 feet without repeaters. See 10Base5.
thin client	client léger	A user's computer or terminal that performs no application processing. It proceses only keyboard input and screen output and functions like an input/output terminal. All application processing is done in the server, and fully-equipped PCs as well as specialized terminals can be used. Windows terminals and the X Window system are examples of this type of "thin processing" client. Contrast with fat client, which is a typical desktop computer performing all or most of the application processing.
third party	tiers	
third-party trademark	marque commerciale de fabricant tiers	All third-party trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
thread	thread	Within an Internet discussion group, an ongoing discussion about a particular topic. Sometimes called a conversation.
thread	thread	In computer processing, a sequence of instructions executed as an independent entity and scheduled by system software. A thread is also known as an executable object.
thread group	groupe de threads	A group that may consist of one or more threads as defined by the programmer.
threaded discussion	suivi de discussion	On the Internet, a running log of discussion remarks about a subject.
thread-safe	accessible à plusieurs threads à la fois	Refers to a function that can be safely invoked simultaneously by multiple threads.
threshold	seuil	A percentage of upper or lower resource utilization that when reached causes an event to be generated for LU6.2 session utilization and configured dependent LU usage.
threshold critical value	valeur de seuil critique	In NetWare Remote Manager (NRM), the criteria for the critical (red/bad) server's health status indicators.
threshold suspect value	valeur de seuil suspecte	In NetWare Remote Manager (NRM), the criteria for the suspect (yellow/suspect) server's health status indicators.
throttled server	serveur étouffé	The server that has paused and is no longer accepting connections.
throughput	débit	The total amount of useful data that is processed or communicated during a specific time period between a source and a destination.
throughput class	classe de débit	A type of class negotiation that specifies, on a per-call basis, the throughput of data that can be transferred on a virtual circuit. The range is between 75 bps and 64 Kbps.
throughput negotiation	négociation de débit	A type of facility that specifies whether to allow negotiation, on a per-call basis, of the throughput of data that can be transferred on a virtual circuit. If selected, incoming calls containing the throughput facility are passed to the destination application. Otherwise, any incoming call containing a throughput facility is cleared if its value does not match the default.
tick	cycle d'horloge	A period of time measuring approximately 1/18 of a second (there are 18.21 ticks in a second).
ticks to network	cycles d'horloge pour arriver au réseau	IPX Configuration.  Number of ticks to allow a packet to reach the destination network. Usually, add one tick to this value for each LAN hop. If your workstations are taking too long to time out when a connection cannot be made, this value is probably too large. If your workstations are giving abort messages too soon, this value is probably too small.  If you are not sure what value to use, run STATICON after configuring and bringing up your network.  STATICON chooses a correct value based on real-time sampling of the link.
TID	TID	Technical Information Document
Tiered Electronic Distribution (TED)	distribution électronique pilotée (TED - Tiered Electronic Distribution)	A utility that distributes software from network sources throughout your network by transferring software and electronic data to Subscriber nodes. TED makes it easy to distribute files by building them into data packages (Distributions) and hosting them in distribution Channels. A Distribution is a grouping of software data that is usually an application program, a collection of data files, or a software patch.  Subscribers subscribe to distribution Channels to receive all of the Distributions placed in the Channels.
tilda	tilde	The ~ symbol. Used by several shells and other programs to represent a users home directory.
time offset	décalage horaire	In NetWare network time management, the difference, in number of hours, between Greenwich Mean Time (GMT), and the time zone where the server is located. GMT is equivalent to Universal Coordinated Time (UTC).
time out	timeout	In communications, the intentional ending of an incomplete task. If an acknowledgment, carrier, logon, etc., has not occurred in a specified amount of time, the timeout ends the waiting loop so that the request can be retransmitted or the process terminated. Timeouts are common in communications applications in order to free up a line or port that is tied up with a request that has not been answered in a reasonable amount of time. For each type of situation, there is a default length of time before the timeout is initiated, which typically can be adjusted by the user or network administrator.
time provider	serveur qui donne l'heure	A NetWare network server that provides UTC time to other servers and clients. The three types of time providers are reference, primary, and single reference.
time restrictions	restrictions horaires	User account login restrictions that designate blocks of time when a user can and cannot log in.
time server	serveur horaire	A NetWare server that runs the TimeSync utility and is designated as one of four types of time servers. The four types of time server are: primary, reference, secondary, and single reference.
time source	source horaire	In a NetWare network, the designated server or group of servers that provide UTC time to all other servers in the network.
time stamp	tampon horaire	An NDS code reporting the identity of an NDS event and the time of its occurrence. Time stamps establish the order of events (such as object creation and NDS partition replication), record "real world" time values, and set expiration dates.
time synchronization	synchronisation horaire	A method of ensuring that all servers in an NDS tree report the same time. Single reference time servers or reference time servers are used to synchronize all other servers.
time synchronization services	services de synchronisation horaire	A collection of utilities and methods that maintain consistent time stamps for enterprise environments with several servers in different time zones. Time synchronization provides network time for the following services: file systems, messaging services, network applications, and NDS.
time to live	durée de vie	
time zone	fuseau horaire	A geographical region within which the same standard time is used. Time zone information is critical to time synchronization for Novell Directory Services. Time zone should be set on each NetWare server.
time zone setting	configuration du fuseau horaire	The time zone setting applies only to GroupWise WebAccess.
timeout	timeout	1. A  technique used to determine whether a particular event occurs within a given window of time.?  2. A protocol procedure that requires a device to make some response to a command or message block within a certain period of time. If the device doesn't respond, a timeout condition occurs.  3. The time TCPCON should wait for a reply from the agent.
timeout	timeout	1. A  technique used to determine whether a particular event occurs within a given window of time.?  2. A protocol procedure that requires a device to make some response to a command or message block within a certain period of time. If the device doesnt respond, a timeout condition occurs.  3. The time TCPCON should wait for a reply from the agent.
timer	horloge, chronomètre	In computing, an internal timing device.
timer	horloge, chronomètre	
timer agent	agent d'horloge	Novell Enterprise Server agent that responds to time-related events that occur as a result of the date or time.
timer handler	gestionnaire d'horloge	
timestamp	tampon horaire	A call center term. A background, relative time market placed on a data transaction element used for throughput and processing calculations. Can be used to determine total work time by placing one at the beginning and one at the end of a transaction. From the Newtons Telecom Dictionary Help file Webmon.hlp under Webmon, jfontanetti.
tips and tricks	conseils et astuces	Helpful hints and short how-to pieces for the product, feature, technology, or other particular part of a solution.
title	titre	Short for "Title property."
to	À	In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, the name of a text field in the Compose window of Mailer. The To field is used to specify the e-mail addresses of the people to receive the mail message.
toggle	basculer	1. To turn an option on and off with the same keystroke or button.  2. To turn on and off with the same switch. The power supply of a computer is"toggled" on and off. Features in an application can be "toggled" with the same keystroke.
token	jeton	A security device given to authorized users who keep them in their possession. To log onto the network, the card may be read directly like a credit card, or it may display a changing number that is typed in as a password.
token	jeton	Object that is used to identify a user.
Token Ring	Token Ring	Devices networked using token-ring topology are cabled together in a circular pattern. A "token" consisting of an identifiable bit pattern is circulated to each node on the ring, regulating when each node can transmit data.
tokentalk	TokenTalk	An AppleTalk network on token ring.  TokenTalk is also Apples implementation of the AppleTalk protocol over token ring. AppleTalk provides the rules for low-level communication over token ring media.
tool	outil	An installable module .dll file that adds capabilities to NetWare Administrator. For example, the NDS Manager tool adds NDS database maintenance capabilities.
tool tip	info-bulle	An admonitory note intended to present brief information about location, availability and functionality of tools.  This is similar to Hint, Important, etc.  It is not product specific but rather is a Novell Product Documentation term and could appear in documentation of any product.    NOTE: This is not the same as the Microsoft term which refers to the tiny rectangular help text box that opens up when you point to an icon in a toolbar.
toolbar	barre d'outils	A configurable strip of buttons that appears by default just below the menu bar. Each item on the toolbar is a shortcut to a menu command.
toolbook	toolbook	Toolbook TBOOK.EXE is a Windows application development system.
toolbook runtime	runtime Toolbook	
toolkit	toolkit	An integrated set of software routines or utilities (tools) that are used to develop and maintain applications and databases. (source: TechWeb)
Tools	Outils	A tab in the MyNovell portal
top-down upgrade	mise à niveau progressive du serveur maître aux serveurs esclaves	An eDirectory upgrade strategy.  With the top-down upgrade strategy you first upgrade or migrate the server that holds the master replica of the root partition of the eDirectory tree, and then upgrade or migrate servers in order, down the tree.
topology	topologie	The physical layout of network components cables, stations, gateways, and hubs. Three basic interconnection topologies are star, ring, and bus networks.
topology mapping	cartographie (du réseau)	Novell specific term. Application for creating a topology (i.e., a map) of the network.
total cost of ownership	coût d'investissement	TCO. A type of calculation designed to help consumers and enterprise managers assess both direct and indirect costs and benefits related to the purchase of any IT component.
Touch	commande Touch	A command that changes the date/time stamp of a file without affecting the contents.
trace run	cycle de trace	Any sequence where you start and stop a trace.
track	piste	1. A concentric ring-shaped portion of a disk in which the data is organized.  2. On a hard drive, the physical division of a platter into concentric circles where data can be stored.
trackball	trackball	A pointing device made up of a ball that you rotate with your finger or your palm to move the mouse pointer on the screen
tracking	suivi	In GroupWise, the ability for one or more users to monitor the status of the item. The full software term is 'Status Tracking'.
trackpoint	trackpoint	A small, eraser-like button located in the middle of a laptop keyboard that you rotate with your finger to move the mouse pointer on the screen.
trademark	marque commerciale	* Novell trademark. ** Third-party trademark.
traffic	trafic	Activity over a network communications channel.
traffic analysis services	services d'analyse du trafic	Novell specific term. Services for analysing the amount of data traffic going over the network.
trailer	code de fin	In communications, a code or set of codes that make up the last part of a transmitted message.
trailing period	point final	The period at the end of a relative name or context in NDS, indicating that the distinguished name uses the workstations current context to establish its own context.
training services	services de formation	Services provided by Novell Education.
Transacted mode	mode transaction	A mode in which transactions are being processed.
transacted session	session en mode transaction	A session that occurs in Transacted mode.
transaction emulation mode	mode d'émulation des transactions	A mode that emulates transactions for a testing purpose.
transaction log	journal des transactions	A collection of transaction records.
Transaction Set Wrap	enveloppe du jeu de transactions	One of the five distinct areas of which a transmission consists.
transaction tracking system	système de suivi des transactions (TTS)	TTS  A NetWare feature that protects database applications from corruption by backing out incomplete transactions that result from a failure in a network component.
transactional	transactionnel	T  Short for "Transactional attribute."
transactional attribute	attribut Transactionnel	T  A file system attribute that indicates that a file is protected by the Transaction Tracking System TTS feature, which allows interrupted operations to be backed out of the file, restoring it to an uncorrupted state. A file with this attribute set cant be deleted or renamed.
transceiver	transmetteur	A media attachment unit MAU.
transfer buffer	tampon de transfert	A temporary memory location for data in transit from one device to another device.
transfer method	méthode de transfert	A technique used for the transfer operations.
transfer operation	opération de transfert	An operation of sending the data (usually from one device to another).
transfer pull directory	répertoire de l'extraction de transfert	In GroupWise, a location in the sending domain where the Message Transfer Agent MTA in the receiving domain can pick up messages from the sending domain. It represents the only configuration where an MTA processes messages from outside its own domain directory structure.
transit area	zone de transit	An OSPF area that contains more than one ABR (area border router).
transition	transition	A passage from one state, stage, subject, or place to another.
translation lookaside buffer	TLB (Translation Lookaside Buffer)	The Translation Lookaside Buffer is a section of memory that is reserved by the processor chipset to be used for quickly accessing memory addresses that are frequently used on the system.  Since there is only a limited amount of physical memory on any giv
transmission control block	bloc de contrôle de transmission	A segment of disk or memory that contains a group of codes used for identification and control of transmissions.  Acronym=TCB
transmission control protocol	protocole TCP	TCP  The major transport protocol in the Internet suite. TCP provides reliable, connection-oriented, full-duplex streams. It uses Internet Protocol IP for delivery.
transmission control protocol/internetwork protocol	TCP/IP	TCP/IP
transmission medium	support de transmission	The physical path used to carry information, such as twisted-pair wires, coaxial cable, fiber-optic cable, terrestrial microwave, and satellite transmission methods.
transmit timestamp	tampon horaire de transmission	This is the time at which the reply departed the server for the client, in 64-bit timestamp format.
transparent	transparent	Describes a function that operates without being evident to the user.
transport layer	couche Transport	The fourth of seven layers in the OSI model. The transport layer provides reliable, end-to-end delivery and detects transmission sequential errors.
transport network	réseau de transport	A private or public data network that transfers data between nodes. It is usually a public packet-switched or circuit-switched network.
trap	intercepter	To test for a particular condition in a running program; for example, to "trap an interrupt" means to wait for a particular interrupt to occur and then execute a corresponding routine. An error trap tests for an error condition and provides a recovery routine. A debugging trap waits for the execution of a particular instruction in order to stop the program and analyze the status of the system at that moment.
trap	trappe	1. An unsolicited message sent by a Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP agent to a network management system that indicates the occurance of a significant event. The SNMP manager that receives a trap can poll for additional information.  2. An SNMP protocol data unit PDU that indicates an exceptional condition.  3. A type of command within the SNMP protocol. A special command the agent uses to inform the SNMP manager of a special event. By default, the traps are sent to a local system.  4. A type of message that can be transmitted for any reason.  5. An SNMP trap is a message sent by an agent to a manager when certain events are detected.
trap community	communauté de trappes	A community name that accompanies all trap messages originating from a server. The SNMP manager receiving the trap messages must also be configured to accept traps from the trap community. By default, the trap community name is set to "public." A user can suppress the sending of trap messages from their server.
trash	corbeille	In the GroupWise client, a predefined folder. All deleted mail and phone messages, appointments, tasks, documents, and reminder notes are stored in the Trash. Items in the Trash can be viewed, opened, or returned to user's Mailbox until the Trash is emptied. (Emptying the Trash removes items in the Trash from the system.)
trash can	corbeille	In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, the File Manager container for deleted files.  In the OSF/Motif Style Guide, Trash Can is an object to which the user drags and drops another object in order to delete the object. The object stays in the Trash Can until the user deletes the subject or until removed automatically as specified by the operating environment.
tree	arborescence	Short for "NDS tree."  A hierarchical structure of objects in the NDS database. The NDS tree includes container objects that are used to organize the network. The structure of the NDS tree can be based on a logical organization of objects, and not necessarily on their physical location.
Tree New RDN	Nouveau RDN de l'arborescence	An obituary type that designates a partition root object whose Relative Distinguished Name (RDN) has changed. This obituary is assigned to the nonpresent object that has the original RDN.
Tree Old RDN	Ancien RDN de l'arborescence	An obituary type that designates a partition root object whose Relative Distinguished Name (RDN) has changed. This obituary is assigned to the renamed partition root object that has the new RDN.
tree structure	structure de l'arborescence	A flexible data structure representing the hierarchical organization of information. A tree consists of a root element with one or more elements branching out directly below it. Often the root is an abstract entity that has a purpose, but no real content. The elements below the root (also known as a parent directory) are called children; a child can, in turn, have children of its own beneath it. Various types of network directories are often represented in the tree structure.
tree walker	parcoureur d'arborescence	A utility for viewing or browsing or traversing the NetWare Directory Services tree structure Randy Stevens, 9/3/99 - SW Portal file, 9/1/99, jfontanetti.
trigger	déclencheur	From the Computer Desktop Encyclopedia:  A mechanism that initiates an action when an event occurs such as reaching a certain time or date or upon receiving some type of input.  A trigger generally causes a program routine to be executed.  In a database management system DBMS, it is an SQL procedure that is executed when a record is added or deleted.  It is used to maintain referential integrity in the database.  A trigger may also execute a stored procedure.  Triggers and stored procedures are built into DBMSs used in client/server environments.    From the Newtons Telecom Dictionary:  An application-specific process invoked by a database management system as a result of a request to add, change, delete, or retrieve a data element.  jfontanetti 8/25/99
Trivial File Transfer Protocol	protocole TFTP	TFTP (Trivial File Transfer Protocol) is a network application that is simpler than the File Transfer Protocol (FTP) but less capable. It is used where user authentication and directory visibility are not required. TFTP uses the User Datagram Protocol (UDP) rather than the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP).
trouble ticket	ticket de dépannage	A help request submitted via e-mail to a designated support contact.
troubleshoot	dépanner	To identify, diagnose and correct problem s in a given situation, outlining a plan of action to correct it them.
Troubleshooting Guide	Troubleshooting Guide (Guide de dépannage)	Troubleshooting Guide
truncate	tronquer	to cut off leading or trailing digits or characters from an item of data without regard to the accuracy of the remaining characters. Truncation occurs when data is converted into a new record with smaller field lengths than the original. (source: TechWeb)
truncation	troncation	Removal of leading or trailing digits or characters from an item of data without regard to the accuracy of the remaining characters.
trust list	liste d'approbation	GroupWise feature permitting users to indicate which e-mail addresses or Internet domains they do not want blocked or junked, no matter what is specified in the block list or in the junk list.
trusted address list	liste des adresses approuvées	GroupWise feature permitting users to indicate which individual Internet addresses they do not want blocked or junked, no matter what is specified in the block list or in the junk list. The trusted address list is a sub-list of the trust list.
trusted host	hôte approuvé	
trusted root	racine approuvée	A certificate that you implicitly trust and that you install into your browser (or other client software). In the context of SSL security, your browser will automatically validate any server certificate that was signed by one of the trusted roots that has been installed and activated in your browser. Netscape and Microsoft Internet Explorer browsers are pre-configured with various trusted root certificates.
trusted tree	arborescence approuvée	
trustee	ayant droit	Any object that has rights to access a network resource such as a directory, file, or object. Rights are granted to objects (making them trustees) by trustee assignments.
trustee access rights	droits d'accès de l'ayant droit	
trustee assignment	assignation d'ayant droit	The granted right of an object to access or perform actions upon another object in the NDS tree. Trustee assignments are stored in the access control list (ACL) property of the object that is being targeted for access.
trustee right	droit d'ayant droit	A privilege assigned to a user or group for a specific volume, folder, directory, or file. The user or group is known as the trustee. The rights assigned determine the kinds of tasks the trustee can carry out.
trustee rights	droits d'ayant droit	
tunneling	tunnelage	The process of encapsulating a packet within a packet of a different protocol.
turbo fat index table	table d'index Turbo FAT	A special file allocation table FAT index table used when a file exceeds 64 blocks and the corresponding number of FAT entries. NetWare creates a turbo FAT index to group together all FAT entries for that file. The first entry in a turbo FAT index consists of the first FAT number of the file. The second entry consists of the second FAT number, etc. A turbo FAT index enables a large file to be accessed quickly.
Tux	Tux	The name of the fictional Linux penguin mascot.
two-way channel	canal bidirectionnel	A type of channel that allows both incoming and outgoing calls.
type-ahead	frappe intuitive	A feature that helps a user to enter (type) information by showing possible choices/candidates in a popup window.
typeface	police	A specific style or shape of type, such as Courier or Helvetica.
typeful name	nom avec type	The NDS object name that includes the name type (OU, O, and so forth) of each object when identifying the distinguished name of that object.
typeless name	nom sans type	The NDS object name that excludes the name type (OU, O, and so forth) of each object when identifying the distinguished name of that object.
typematic rate/msec	vitesse de frappe/msec	The rate at which keys can be pressed (measured in milliseconds). If keys are hit faster than this, they will not be recognized.
ucs	UCS	Universal Component System
UDDI tModel	UDDI tModel	UDDI tModel is a meta-data construct that uniquely identifies reusable service-related technical specifications for reference purposes.
UDP	UDP	User Datagram Protocol. A transport protocol in the Internet suite of protocols. UDP, like Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), uses IP for delivery; however, unlike TCP, UDP provides for exchange of datagrams without acknowledgement or guaranteed delivery.
unattended	sans surveillance	Denotes a process or procedure that does not require user assistance.
unattended file	fichier d'installation sans surveillance	A file named unattend.txt (filename is non-translatable) used to perform an unattended install.
unattended install	installation sans surveillance	Method to install a software with preconfigured settings so that no user intervention is required.
unattended mode	mode sans surveillance	An installation method. See "unattended install."
unauthorized access	accès non autorisé	
unavailable	indisponible	In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, describes a window element that cannot be selected in the current context. For example: "The OK button is unavailable until you select an item in the list."
unbind	annuler la liaison	To remove a communication protocol from network boards and LAN drivers.
unbinding	suppression de la liaison	Releasing a bind.
UNC	UNC	(Universal Naming Convention) A standard for identifying servers, printers and other resources in a network, which originated in the UNIX community. A UNC path uses double slashes or backslashes to precede the name of the computer.
unc redirection	réacheminement UNC	universal naming convention redirection.  A technology that allows a user to map to network resources without formally connecting to them. Using UNC redirection, a user can do the following:  - Use applications and programs within MS Windows to access network volumes and directories  - Assign network applications, volumes, and directories to icons within MS Windows
uncompress	décompresser	To decompress.
unconstructed	non construit	An object that has not been constructed.
undelete	restituer	To reinstate or recover previously deleted files or data.
undeliverable	non livrable	In GroupWise, a status of message that indicates that GroupWise could not deliver the item to one or more recipients.
unencrypted password	mot de passe non codé	A password that does not use any type of encryption
ungroup	dissocier	To separate a group of objects into separate objects.
unicode	Unicode	A fixed-width 16-bit code, defined by the Unicode Consortium, that supports up to 65,536 unique combinations. Each combination forms a character. Unicode allows mathematics, technical, graphical, and publishing symbols, punctuation marks, as well as the characters from written languages to be represented, each by a single 16-bit character.
unicode translation tables	tables de conversion Unicode	
uniform resource identifier	identificateur de ressource uniforme	URI  On the World Wide Web, an entity that identifies a file using an address schema and other information or details connected to the address schema. It may or may not include the physical location specified by the URL.
uniform resource locator	localisateur de ressource uniforme	URL  A generalization of the file naming concepts already in common use on the Internet. A URL extends the filename and pathname used to refer to files on a computer by adding an Internet address and protocol component. A URL specifies the computer and access method protocol in addition to the filename and thus can be used to refer to files anywhere on a network.   While URLs are used in various forms by different systems, they are most closely associated with the World Wide Web.
uninstall	désinstaller	To delete a program or application from a system, along with its associated registry entries, files, and directories. This is usually done by running an uninstall program.
uninterruptible power supply	onduleur	UPS  A backup power unit that supplies power if commercial power fails. A UPS can be either online or offline. Some are battery powered; others include generators that can provide standby power indefinitely.
unique password	mot de passe unique	If the network is set up to only accept unique passwords, it will reject any new password that is the same as one of the last eight passwords if they have been used for at least one day.
UnitedLinux	UnitedLinux	United Linux is a commercial extension of another project within the Linux community, the Linux Standards Base (LSB). LSB created a set of specifications for Linux distributions, so developers and administrators know what to expect from an LSB-compliant distribution. UnitedLinux takes the concept of the LSB and creates a commercial product based on an LSB-compliant distribution.
universal coordinated time	temps universel	UTC.  The mean solar time of the meridian of Greenwich, England 0? longitude, used as the prime basis of standard time throughout the world.
Universal Description and Discovery Integration	UDDI (Universal Description and Discovery Integration)	a.k.a. UDDI - System through which web services find others and can make themselves known to other services
universal naming convention	convention universelle de dénomination	UNC.  A naming standard across networks that allows users to specify a path to a file or directory without having to specify a drive letter.
unix client	client Unix	1. A UNIX computer connected to a NetWare network using TCP/IP. The UNIX client stores and retrieves data from the NetWare server and runs executable network files. The UNIX client provides multiple NetWare-client multitasking on a single station. UNIX clients include IPX/SPX and NCP/IPX communication protocols to allow other NetWare clients access to UNIX applications.  2. A UNIX client is a node on a TCP/IP connection.
UNIX Service Handler	gestionnaire de services UNIX	In Novell NFS, a directory handler for UNIX Services. Also a name for the User object created in eDirectory by the NFS installation program.
unknown object	objet Inconnu	A leaf object representing an NDS object that has been corrupted and cant be identified as belonging to any of the other object classes. After migrating to NetWare 4 or later versions from NetWare 2 or 3, bindery objects might appear as Unknown objects.
unlink	détacher	To undo a link
unload	décharger	To remove a software program, such as an NLM, from operating system memory so that the program no longer can execute.
unload script	script de déchargement	A script that contains the commands to terminate a resource or service on a cluster server or to dismount a volume on a cluster server.
unlock	déverrouiller	In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, to enable screen input by entering a password when the screen is locked.
unmap	annuler l'assignation	To remove the assignment of a drive letter to a directory path on a volume.
unmapped drive	unité non assignée	A drive that has not yet been given a drive designation.
unmark	désélectionner	To remove the mark from a marked item.
unmirror	annuler la mise en miroir	To terminate duplication of a disk, partition, server, or other device. In NetWare, to terminate duplication of data on two separate hard disks using the same disk channel.
unmounted volume	volume non monté	A volume that has not been mounted, i.e., made available on the server. Consequently, the volume is not accessible to users.
unopened	non ouvert	In GroupWise, a status of the item.
unread	non lu	In GroupWise, a status of the item.
unrecoverable error	erreur irrécupérable	A fatal error for which recovery is impossible without the use of recovery techniques beyond those provided by the computer program.
unregister	supprimer du registre	To remove an entry from the system registry.
unreliable	peu fiable	Describes datagram delivery in the Internet protocol where packet delivery is not guaranteed.
unreturned document	document non retourné	In GroupWise document management, a document  that has been opened but not returned to the library.
unsecure web server	serveur Web non sécurisé	A server on the World Wide Web that does not support one or more of the major security protocols such as SSL, SHTTP and PCT.
unsubscribe	annuler l'abonnement	To cancel a service. TechEncyclopedia http://www.techweb.com/encyclopedia/ raburto 8/20/99
untrusted	non approuvé	(Untrusted) Signed
unzip	dézipper	To decompress a file in the .ZIP file format.
up arrow	flèche haut	The key on the computer keyboard that moves the cursor upwards on the computer screen.
up arrow	flèche haut	The button in a dialog or on an html page displaying an arrow that points upwards.
up time	temps de fonctionnement	The date and time the selected resource was loaded or allocated. From the Link Information window, this is the date and time NetWare for SAA was loaded. From the Service Information window, this is the date and time the Communication Executive was loaded.
update	mettre à jour	To install a software release containing minor enhancements and fixes
update	mise à jour	A software release containing minor enhancements and fixes to the software. Updates are made regularly to software, and can be obtained upon request.
update	mettre à jour	To reload an information display in order to view the latest available changes.
update	mettre à jour	To install a software release containing minor enhancement and fixes.
update guide	guide de mise à jour	A documentation containing the steps required to perform a software update.
upgrade	mise à niveau	The process of converting a network from any earlier version of NetWare or from another network operating system to the latest version of NetWare. Upgrade methods consist of in-place and across-the-wire.
upgrade	mise à niveau	The process of converting a network from any earlier version of NetWare or from another network operating system to the latest version of NetWare. Upgrade methods consist of in-place and across-the-wire.
upgrade	mettre à niveau	To install an improved version of software or a hardware device, whether from the same or a different manufacturer.
Upgrade License	licence de Mise à jour	A license that gives the customer the right to change a program to a newer version.
upgrade protection	protection de mise à jour	In Novell Licensing, "software insurance," which provides new product upgrades, reduced costs for Novell software releases, and simplified software budgeting.
Upgrades Gadget	gadget de mises à jour	A gadget or tool that has been made available on the Customer Care portal. Through this gadget, customers may access software download files and installation/license files for any Novell product for which they have purchased Upgrade Protection or Maintenance. This gadget will now become the means of all Novell customers to receive their upgrades.
upkeep	maintenance	User Upkeep is an administrative function of POA which performs the following activities once a day: - Advance uncompleted tasks to the next day  - Delete expired items from users' mailboxes  - Empty expired items from Trash  - Synchronize users' Frequent Contacts books with the system Address Book
upload	télécharger	To transmit data from a computer to a bulletin board service, mainframe, ftp site, or network.
upper memory	mémoire supérieure	Memory located above the normal DOS limit of 640 KB and below the beginning of extended memory at 1024 KB 1 MB that is addressable by 16-bit processors.  Parts of this memory are reserved for DOS and BIOS functions.
upper memory block	bloc de mémoire supérieure	UMB  A block of system memory between 640 KB and 1,024 KB that is addressed directly by DOS and applications. UMBs are defined by the extended memory specification XMS and are created by a driver such as EMM386.EXE in DOS. The driver converts unused address spaces in the system memory to upper memory blocks. The upper memory blocks are then directly addressed by DOS and applications and can be loaded with applications, drivers, and terminate-and-stay-resident TSR programs.
ups monitoring	surveillance de l'onduleur	The process a NetWare server uses to ensure that an uninterruptible power supply UPS is functioning properly.
upsell opportunities	fidélisation	Complementary selling opportunities which add value and revenue to the existing offer.
URI	URI	Uniform Resource Identifier  On the World Wide Web, an entity that identifies a file using an address schema and other information or details connected to the address schema. It may or may not include the physical location (specified by the URL).
URL	URL	Uniform Resource Locator  A generalization of the file naming concepts already in common use on the Internet. A URL extends the filename and pathname used to refer to files on a computer by adding an Internet address and protocol component. A URL specifies the computer and access method (protocol) in addition to the filename and thus can be used to refer to files anywhere on a network.  While URLs are used in various forms by different systems, they are most closely associated with the World Wide Web.
url forwarding	réacheminement d'URL	Redirection is a method for the server to tell a user that a URL has changed, for example, if you have moved files to another directory or server. You can also use redirection to seamlessly send a person who requests a document on one server to a document on another server. To map a URL to another server, you must first specify the prefix of the URL you want the server to redirect. Then, you need to choose which URL to redirect to. You can redirect to a URL prefix if the directory on the new server is the same as in the mapped URL you can also redirect to a fixed URL hostname, directory, and filename.
usage	utilisation	Degree of utilisation, e.g., 65% of a hard disk are used for data.
usenet	Usenet	A global collection of Internet newsgroups.
user	utilisateur	1. Someone who is authorized to log in to a network and/or database when security is installed and who has access rights to specific filenames, directories, and files.  2. Any person allowed to work on the network. A user logs in to the server with a username identifying him or her as someone allowed to use server resources.
user	utilisateur	Short for "User object". A User object in NDS that has been given a GroupWise account. A user can receive messages from and send messages to other users, and act as a resource owner or GroupWise administrator.
user account	compte utilisateur	A place on the network that holds information about a user. Each user has an user account.  User accounts are part of network security and also control the user environment.?  NetWare security feature. Each user on a NetWare network has a user account. This account determines what name the user uses to log in to the network, the groups the user belongs to and what trustee assignments the user has. User accounts are maintained by the network supervisor.
user authentication method	méthode d'authentification des utilisateurs	UAM.  Using a User Authentication method, the server compares the user name and password a user enters with information in the NetWare directory, and grants or denies the connection as appropriate.?
user count	nombre d'utilisateurs	In Novell products, the number of users who use the product.
user cv	CV utilisateur	This is one of several possible "states" for a given thread.     A thread could be currently running, or it could be blocked on any number of things: a semaphore, for example, or a "Condition Variable" (CV).     A Condition Variable is used internally to check for a specific thing on the processor, a "condition," and the CV can be used in any address space called "user" spaces.     "Blocked on a user CV" means the current thread is blocked on a Condition Variable in a non-kernel user address space.
user database	base de données utilisateur	Each user on a post office has a user database. The user database stores the user's setup information, personal groups, rules, and other information specific to the user. It also contains references to the user's messages in the message databases.
user datagram protocol	protocole UDP	UDP  A transport protocol in the Internet suite of protocols. UDP, like Transmission Control Protocol TCP, uses IP for delivery; however, unlike TCP, UDP provides for exchange of datagrams without acknowledgement or guaranteed delivery.
user group	groupe d'utilisateurs	Users can be combined in lists or groups for easier administration.
user hold	mise en attente par l'utilisateur	A hold placed on a print job by the Queue User who owns the job, or by the Queue Operator.
user ID	ID utilisateur	A user name (or Mailbox ID) in GroupWise system.
user id file	fichier ID de l'utilisateur	In Lotus Notes, a binary file with an .ID extension, created at user registration, and used to identify a Notes user to the servers he/she has authorized access to. This file contains the user's name, Notes license number, public and private keys, encryption keys and certificate(s).
user license	licence utilisateur	In Novell licensing, a Per User license is a license that grants usage rights to one User object in a single directory tree. This is a non-exclusive, non-transferable right to use the Software.
user login script	script de login utilisateur	A type of login script that sets environments specific to a user. User login scripts are optional; if used, they execute after system and profile login scripts.
user name	nom d'utilisateur	1. A name recognized by the network, with which a user gains access to the server. Each user is assigned a user name and usually a password for logging in.  2. In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, a Login screen identifier for making a user known to the system. Sometimes called a login name. For example, a user whose name is John Doe might have the user name jdoe. Login prompts the user for his or her user name.
user object	objet Utilisateur	A leaf object in the eDirectory tree that represents a person who uses the network. It contains information about the network user it represents, such as login name, telephone number, address, and group membership.
user object admin	objet Utilisateur ADMIN	A User object created at installation in the NDS tree. It is automatically assigned the Supervisor S right to all objects in the NDS tree.
user rights	droits utilisateur	Grant the selected user rights to the current item.
user template	modèle utilisateur	A file containing default information that applies to new User objects to give them default property values. This helps a network administrator create many User objects that need the same property values.
user word list	liste de mots personnelle	In the GroupWise client, a list of words and phrases that Spell Checker skips, replaces, or displays alternatives for.
user-based products	produits utilisateur	Products licensed to users, no matter how many servers they have access to.
user-defined	défini par l'utilisateur	Something that that has been created by the user.
user-defined button	bouton défini par l'utilisateur	A button in a customizable interface that has been created by the user.
username	nom d'utilisateur	Each account has a username that the user of the account types in to log in to the network and uses to gain access to the network resources.
utility	utilitaire	In NetWare, a program that adds functionality to the NetWare operating system. Examples include NLM programs, DOS-based command line utilities, Java utilities, menu utilities, and server console utilities.
validate	valider	Validate Database
validation error	erreur de validation	Allow Documents With Validation Errors To Be Created or Updated lets you choose to bypass any validation errors.
value-added process	processus à valeur ajoutée	VAP  A process that ties enhanced operating system features to a NetWare 2 operating system without interfering with the networks normal operation. VAPs run on top of the operating system in much the same way a word processing or spreadsheet application runs on top of DOS. NLM programs provide this type of enhancement for NetWare 3 and later versions.
value-added server	serveur à valeur ajoutée	A separate, specialized, dedicated computer such as a print server or a database server that fulfills a specific function for network users.
vampire tap	prise vampire	A hardware clamp which connects one cable segment to another by penetrating the insulation of the network cable segment without cutting it. The connection to the cable is made with a needle on the tap which pierces the insulation of the cable.
variable	variable	A symbol or name that stands for a value.
variant	variante	A variant of an image is an image from which a given file or folder has been excluded. Variants exist merely as internal attributes of the same image archive. Also referred to as "fileset".
vcard	vCard	Virtual Card.  An electronic business card containing information about the owner, including items such as sound clips and pictures as well as text.
vendor	fournisseur	Seller or supplier of product or specific set of services. This may also refer to the manufaturer.
vendor	fournisseur	A supplier of product or specific set of services.
verb	verbe	A verb is a simple text string that is used by the Shell to identify the associated command. Each verb corresponds to the command string that is used to launch the command. (source: MSDN)
verbose	verbeux	A log level that provides the greatest amount of detail.
verification record	enregistrement de vérification	A record used to maintain association to the post office, usually stored in an area of the database separate from the message records.
verify	vérifier	For all options, except Verify Library, all documents in the library databases are checked; Resets and verifies system folders.
VESA (Video Electronics Standards Association)	VESA (Video Electronics Standard Association - association de normalisation des systèmes électroniques vidéo)	Industrial consortium that defines, among other things, important video standards.
video card	carte vidéo	A circuit board that enables a computer to display information on its screen.The resolution, number of colours, and refresh rate of a monitor is determined by the kind of video card used, plus the limitations of the monitor itself. (Source: High-Tech Dictionary, ComputerUser)
view	afficher	In NetWare Administrator, a window that lets a user view, and possibly edit, some type of network information. A main view provides the main window in which a user works, and it controls the menu bar; a secondary view is a dialog box that provides more detail or options for an item in the main view.
view	vue	In GroupWise, a window that allows the user to see Mailbox or Calendar items, e.g., mail message view, task view, etc.
view designer	éditeur de vue	An application used to create custom views (mail message views, task views, etc.) for use with the GroupWise client.
view flag	drapeau de visualisation	In iManager, a flag that allows you to limit which buttons are available o users at the selected object (eg container) in the directory
view menu	menu Afficher	In the GroupWise client, a pull-down menu with options that are used to help a user work more efficiently in the Main Window.
view properties	propriétés d'affichage	In GroupWise View Designer, properties of the custom view (mail message view, task view, etc.)
view rights	droits d'affichage	The file right giving the users who have been granted this right the permission to view the files.
viewer	visionneuse	A utility to view the contents of a file.
virtual	virtuel	Conceptual or appearing to be, rather than actually being.
virtual circuit	circuit virtuel	A type of circuit that provides a connection-oriented service similar to that of circuit switching, but with the following exceptions:  ? It is limited to a connection between two end points.  ? It has the advantage of economical statistical multiplexing for establishing a logical path through the network.  This logical path can be provided either on a permanent basis by a permanent virtual circuit PVC, which is equivalent to a leased circuit, or on a request basis by an switched virtual circuit SVC. Once the logical path is established, the packets are transferred between connected ends, as desired.
virtual circuit number	numéro de circuit virtuel	A method that determines which packets belong to a virtual circuit. Each packet can contain a 4-bit logical group number and an 8-bit logical channel number.
virtual console	console virtuelle	Separate console displays that can run separate login sessions, but are accessed from the same physical console terminal.
virtual directory	répertoire virtuel	A logical grouping of addresses that physically reside on more than one network. Virtual directories are common on the Internet, where links to many URLs, existing in many different locations, are presented as part of a single directory.
virtual discussion group	groupe de discussion virtuel	An Internet discussion group that presents the results of a search across multiple discussion groups in order to enable easy access to a specific topic.
virtual link	liaison virtuelle	The software that extends a network backbone area by linking two partitioned areas.
virtual loadable module	module chargeable virtuel (VLM)	VLM  An executable program for a DOS workstation to enable various kinds of communications with a server, or to enable applications on a server running NetWare 4 or an earlier version.  For example, the NetWare DOS Requester is a suite of VLM programs, as is Desktop SNMP.
virtual memory (VM) cache pool	réserve de cache de la mémoire virtuelle (VM)	In NetWare, a cache pool used by virtual memory system. See "Virtual memory system."
virtual memory (VM) system	système de mémoire virtuelle (VM)	In NetWare, a system that swaps little-used data to disk, thereby freeing memory for more frequently used data.
virtual memory health	état de santé de la mémoire virtuelle	Same as VM Health
virtual memory page	page de mémoire virtuelle	In virtual memory systems, a page is a fixed number of bytes recognized by the operating system.
virtual memory swapping	échange de mémoire virtuelle	The process of replacing one segment of a program in memory with another and restoring it back to the original when required. It is also called "paging."
Virtual Office	Virtual Office	Novell® Virtual Office addresses the need for users to be self-sufficient with their IT needs. It lets users set up and manage many of their own networking, information sharing, and data backup processes. And it optimizes the concept of self-service for users, which significantly reduces support calls.
virtual organizations	organisations virtuelles	A handful of servers or desktop PCs in a single room, or a heterogeneous hodge-podge of systems scattered around the world connected via the Internet. All of these systems are able to work together because of certain protocols, which control connectivity, resource allocation and management, and coordination of those resources.
virtual private network	réseau privé virtuel	A private network that is configured within a public network. For years, common carriers have built VPNs that appear as private national or international networks to the customer, but physically share backbone trunks with other customers. VPNs enjoy the security of a private network via access control and encryption, while taking advantage of the economies of scale and built-in management facilities of large public networks. VPNs have been built over X.25, Switched 56, frame relay and ATM technologies. Today, there is tremendous interest in VPNs over the Internet, especially due to the constant threat of hacker attacks. The VPN adds that extra layer of security, and a huge growth in VPN use is expected.
virtual search server	serveur de recherche virtuel	A fully customizable search engine, which does not share any visual settings with other virtual engines located on the same machine and/or platform. To put it simply, it is your OWN search engine that searches the web or a region the way you want. This technology was innovated by CurryGuide.
virtual server	serveur virtuel	A copy of the Novell Web Server application. The program replicates into (virtual) server and/or (virtual) host. The virtual server has its own configuration, log, and document directories and a unique DNS hostname or IP address. Multiple virtual servers can run independently on the same Novell Web Server application.
virus request blocking	blocage des requêtes de virus	A feature that protects your network, especially web servers, from virus attacks.
visibility	visibilité	Visibility determines what address books the user is displayed in. The user’s information can be set to display at the post office, domain, or system level.
vm health	état de santé VM	A measure of the "health" of the Virtual Memory VM system
volatile user	utilisateur temporaire	A temporary account that is created in the local Security Access Manager (SAM) by NWGINA (NetWare Graphical Identification and Authentication) when the user logs in to the workstation. The account is deleted when the user logs out.
volume	volume	A physical amount of hard disk storage space, fixed in size, that is the highest level in the directory structure of NetWare (same level as a DOS root directory). Each volume is also a Volume object in the NDS tree.
volume	volume	In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, the loudness or intensity of a sound. The Style Manager Beep dialog box provides a control for adjusting the volume of the system beep.
volume	volume	Short for "Volume object."
Volume Creation Utility	utilitaire de création de volume	Utility used to create volumes in the server.
volume definition table	table de définition du volume	A table that keeps track of volume segment information such as the volume name, the volume size, and where the volume segments are located on the various network hard disks. Each NetWare volume contains a volume definition table in its NetWare partition.
volume label	étiquette de volume	An assigned name used to identify a disk. In NetWare, volume labels are set by the NetWare LABEL command.
Volume License Agreement (VLA)	Accord de Licence VLA	VLA has been designed with the small-medium sized organisation in mind and independent divisions of larger distributed organisations. Through a two year membership, VLA gives you the ability to acquire all your software resources with a limited initial purchase and without the need to sign a contract or provide a purchase forecast.
volume object	objet Volume	A leaf object in the eDirectory tree that represents a physical volume on the network. Its properties can store information about its location, owner, space use restrictions, statistical information, and so forth.
volume-to-directory replication	réplication volume-répertoire	Copying the contents of disk volumes on the master server into a specified directory on the replica server. Within this directory, multiple directories can exist, representing the various replicated volumes of data. Each directory is automatically created and given the same name as its master. The files on the replica server are at a lower hierarchical level than those on the master server, but multiple master server volumes can be replicated to a single replica server volume space permitting.
volume-to-volume replication	réplication d'un volume à l'autre	Copying the contents of a disk volume to the master server to an identically named volume on the replica server. This option replicates specified items from the master volume to a replica server volume, leaving the files on both servers identically named and at the same hierarchical level and path. This is the default replication option.
vpn	VPN	(Virtual Private Network) A private network that is configured within a public network. For years, common carriers have built VPNs that appear as private national or international networks to the customer, but physically share backbone trunks with other customers. VPNs enjoy the security of a private network via access control and encryption, while taking advantage of the economies of scale and built-in management facilities of large public networks. VPNs have been built over X.25, Switched 56, frame relay and ATM technologies. Today, there is tremendous interest in VPNs over the Internet, especially due to the constant threat of hacker attacks. The VPN adds that extra layer of security, and a huge growth in VPN use is expected.
VPN	VPN (Virtual Private Network)	Virtual Private Network
VPN master server	serveur VPN maître	The central control point for the configuration and management of the VPN. In addition, a server (master or slave) can be a member of only one VPN.
VPN Member	membre VPN	Client or server that is part of the Virtual Private Network. A server (master or slave) can be a member of only one VPN.
VPN Tunnel	tunnel VPN	Type of communication protocol used by the VPN master server to exchange encrypted information with other VPN members.
w	w	Short for Write Right
W3C ECMAScript-to-DOM Binding methods	méthodes W3C de liaison ECMAScript-DOM	DOM binding methods of W3C's ECMAScript.
wait interval	délai d'attente	In the GroupWise client, the specified number of seconds that the GroupWise waits for a non-integrated application to open. If GroupWise doesn't detect the application opening, GroupWise times out and loses contact with the document, which means GroupWise can't return the document to the library. If this happens, user must manually return the document.
wait lock	verrou d'attente	A type of explicit record lock in which Btrieve does not return control to your application until it has obtained the lock on the record you requested. You request wait locks by specifying a lock bias value on a Btrieve operation code.
wait time	temps d'attente	In a NetWare UPS, the number of seconds the UPS will wait before signaling to the NetWare server that the normal power supply is off. The NetWare server then alerts attached workstations to log out.
Waiver	Renonciation	Intentional relinquishment of a right, claim, or privilege.
wan call destination	destination d'appel WAN	A remote call configuration for a WAN link. One call configuration equals one virtual circuit on one WAN link and contains the parameters needed by the WAN link driver to establish and maintain links to a given destination.
WAN call directory	répertoire d'appels WAN	The WAN call directory is a list of the WAN call destination configurations that you want to use for each virtual circuit. You must create at least one WAN call destination configuration for each destination you want to communicate with. WAN call destination configurations contain the parameters that NetWare Link/Frame Relay applies when it is establishing and maintaining calls to the destination.
WAN Traffic Manager	Gestionnaire de trafic WAN	
WAP	WAP	(Wireless Application Protocol) A standard for providing cellular phones, pagers and other handheld devices with secure access to e-mail and text-based Web pages. Introduced in 1997 by Phone.com (now Openwave Systems), Ericsson, Motorola and Nokia, WAP pr
warm boot	démarrage à chaud	Refers to resetting a computer that is already turned on. Resetting it returns the computer to its initial state. A warm boot is sometimes necessary when a program encounters an error from which it cannot recover. On PCs, you can perform a warm boot by pressing the Control, Alt, and Delete keys simultaneously. On Macs, you can perform a warm boot by pressing the Restart button.
warm start	démarrage à chaud	Restarting the computer by performing a reset operation (pressing reset, Ctrl-Alt-Del, etc.).
warning	avertissement	
warning message	message d'avertissement	In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, and in the OSF/Motif Style Guide, a kind of action message indicating that although an undesirable condition might occur, the user can allow the process to continue.
warranty of merchantability	garantie d'adéquation à un usage spécifique	The implied warranty of merchantability is an assurance that a new item will work for its specified purpose.
watchdog	surveillance	Short for "watchdog packet."
watchdog packet	paquet de surveillance (watchdog)	Packets used to make sure workstations are still connected to the NetWare server.  All settings are determined by the SET parameters.  Server parameters can be set so that if the server hasnt received a packet from a station in a certain time, a watchdog packet is sent to the station. If the station doesnt respond within a certain time, another watchdog packet is sent.  If the station still doesnt respond to a certain number of watchdog packets, the server assumes that the station is no longer connected and clears the stations connection.  The time period before the first watchdog packet, the time period between watchdog packets, and the number of watchdog packets are configurable using the SET utility.
WBEM	WBEM	Web-based Enterprise Management. An industry standard for the administration of networked computers through a web browser.
web	web	Short for "World Wide Web" WWW or W3.  A wide-area information retrieval system that provides users on computer networks a consistent means to access a variety of media by using a browser. The World Wide Web is part of the Internet.
Web application	application web	A collection of servlets, html pages, classes, and other resources that can be bundled and run on multiple containers from multiple vendors to add dynamic functionality to a web site.
web browser	navigateur Web	A client application that connects to a Web server over a network or other communication link. It can also browse locally. Browsers send FTP, HTTP, or other types of requests to view HTML or other documents or to access services on the Web. The browser serves as a front end to the World Wide Web, for viewing documents on the Web.
Web Clipping	Web Clipping	Extracting a smaller amount from a Web page in order to display effectively on a handheld Web appliance. Web clipping often uses a predefined form, or template, into which the extracted data is placed.
web community	communauté Web	A collection of web pages that have more hyperlinks within the community than outside of the community. Members of the community share a common interest on a particular topic, purpose or activity.
Web console	console Web	The Web console lets you use a Web browser to access the agents' statistics and diagnostic information from another workstation.
web enabled	Web	Able to connect to or be used on the Web.
Web Experience	Expérience Web	A NetWare service that provides integrated access to customers, employees and partners, anytime, anywhere.
Web Requisition	Web Requisition	A Novell system where you can view and "handle" purchase requisitions online.
Web self-service	self-service Web	Self-service through the Web
web server	serveur Web	
Web Services	Services Web	The Web Services are solutions that are based on open & advanced Internet standards, such as XML.
Web Services Composition	composition des services Web	A process model based on web services. Essentially, any WSFL process.
Web Services Flow Language	langage WSFL (Web Services Flow Language)	WSFL. An XML language for the description of Web Services Composition.
web site	site Web	Any machine on the Internet that is running a Web server to respond to requests from remote Web browsers. In more common usage, it refers to individual sets of Web pages that can be visited with Web browsers.
Web storefront	vitrine Web	Web Storefront is a website that is template-built for your business. Your customers can browse your products, get information about them and then buy them from their home or work computers.
WebAccess Agent	agent WebAccess	In GroupWise WebAccess, a component that is referred to as the gateway. It communicates between the applications (WebAccess and WebPublisher) and the GroupWise system providing access to the data store (user mailbox and published library).
WebAccess Application	application WebAccess	In GroupWise WebAccess, an application that provides the user interface and passes requests and information between users’ web browsers and the WebAccess agent.
webdav	WebDAV	An easy-to-use web publishing interface.
WebPublisher Application	application WebPublisher	GroupWise WebAccess consists of three components: the WebAccess Application, the WebPublisher Application, and the WebAccess Agent. WebPublisher Application provides access to a published GroupWise library.
week number	numéro de semaine	An ISO standard number assigned to a calendar week.  The week number can be included in a GroupWise calendar view or calendar printout.
Welcome Aboard Kit	kit de bienvenue	Welcome kit sent to partners after a successful subscription into PartnerNet program.
Welcome Center	page d'accueil	Novell iManager Welcome Center
what's new	quoi de neuf	A heading on novell.com web pages.
white paper	livre blanc	A short treatise whose purpose is to educate industry customers. It is produced by the company that created that technology, as opposed to a FAQ, which can be created by anyone.
wide area network	réseau étendu	WAN  A network, not confined to a single location, that communicates over a long distance, such as across a city or around the world. A WAN is usually formed by connecting smaller local area networks (LANs).
Widget	widget	A graphical user interface programming object (button, scrollbar, radio button, etc.) for the X Window System.
wildcard character	caractère joker	1. A character used to replace other characters in a search string.  2. Special characters that match certain specified items; there are 2 wildcard characters, ? and *.  The ? can be substituted for any single character in a filename and the * can be substituted for 1 or more characters in the filename or filename extension.  3. In a word search, file search, or directory search, wildcards are characters used to represent variables. A question mark represents a single character that you want to vary in a search; an asterisk * represents zero or more characters in succession.
window	fenêtre	1. A method of displaying a document so that many of its elements appear graphically and many features are immediately available as on-screen choices. The place where you type your documents is called a document window.  2. A method of displaying an application or a feature list, such as In Box, Out Box, Appointments, Notes, Tasks, Date, and Multiuser List. Each window has a title bar, and, unlike a view, can be sized or moved.  3. An area on the desktop that is displayed within a border. The elements of the window appear as graphics. Unlike a view, a window can be sized.  4. The various visual elements a GUI program displays on a computers monitor.  5. An area on your screen that displays an application or a form. A window usually contains a title bar, a menu bar, and a status bar. In addition, it may contain scroll bars, a Button Bar, and a Ruler.
window manager	gestionnaire de fenêtres	Window manager is a program that manages basic infrastructure supported by Xwindow server. It provides elements such as graphic "look and feel" elements for windows, bars, dialogs, etc. as well as background, pane management as well as window behavior.
WINE	WINE	Wine is a project to allow a PC running a Unix-like operating system to run x86 programs that utilise the Microsoft Windows API. Alternately, those wishing to port a Windows application to a Unix-like system can compile it against the Wine libraries.  The name was derived from the recursive acronym "Wine Is Not an Emulator" (it is a compatibility layer), although an alternative expansion is "Windows Emulator".  Wine is free software.
wizard	assistant	Instructional help that guides the user through a series of steps to accomplish a task.
word morphing	morphing des mots	A technology used by a search engine to find words with common roots.
work in progress	Travail en cours	A GroupWise feature (and folder) that allows users to save draft versions of items so they can be finished at another time.
work schedule	Heures de travail	In GroupWise, a feature that allows users to specify their office hours. The information is displayed in Busy Search and in the users Calendar.
worker thread	thread de travail	The NetWare 4.0 OS introduced the concept of work. Each work unit has a routine and data associated with it, but the work unit is not a thread. To handle these work units, the OS reserves a pool of worker threads that are dedicated to running work.
workflow	workflow	The workflow engine is part of the automatic provisioning solution. It automates the access for employees' work requirement
workflow	processus de travail	In GroupWise, a series of steps or tasks done by several people to accomplish a goal. Typically, a workflow contains an attached file which recipients can open in its source application. For example, rather than printing, copying, and delivering a file for review or approval, you can route it electronically as part of a workflow.
workflow central	gestionnaire de processus de travail	In GroupWise WorkFlow, a view of all workflows in which you participate in any way.
workflow manager	gestionnaire de processus de travail	In GroupWise WorkFlow Discovery, a single location for managing all of your workflow items. Synonymous with "workflow central"
workforce ID	ID de l'employé	The identification number that identifies a user within the Novell workforce tree
workgroup	groupe de travail	1. A workgroup consists of a number of users who require the same access to certain information.  2. Two or more individuls on a LAN who share files, databases and other resources.  3. A logical grouping of computers and users. The workgroup model is a peer-to-peer networking arrangement that does not require a central server. It is designed for a small number of computers that need to be connected and share resources.
working directory	répertoire de travail	A directory on the host server where log and error files for each backup session are recorded and stored.
worksheet	feuille de calcul	The matrix of rows and columns that is the basic working element of a spreadsheet program.
workspace	espace de travail	In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, the current screen display, the icons and windows it contains, and the unoccupied screen area where icons can be placed. In the OSF/Motif Style Guide, workspace is an area that holds elements that make up the user interface.
workstation	poste de travail	A personal computer or terminal device connected to a network, through which a user can access a server.  Also called "client," "node," or "station."
workstation group object	objet Groupe de postes de travail	An object which lets you manage or maintain a group of workstations. By creating Workstation Group objects according to various group needs, you reduce the time it takes to maintain software versions and workstation configurations.
workstation manager	Workstation Manager	WS_MAN  This software module in Storage Management Services SMS receives "I am here" messages from stations available to be backed up. It keeps the names of these stations in an internal list.
workstation object	objet Poste de travail	An NDS object created to allow network administrators to manage workstations through NDS. When a workstation is registered and imported, the object is automatically created and instantiated.
workstation registration program	programme d'enregistrement de poste de travail	An executable program on a workstation that registers the workstation in NDS and makes the workstation available for importing.  Workstation Registration program is part of the Z.E.N.works utility suite.
worldwide	monde (link in the Novell.com page)	Involving or extending throughout the entire world.
worm	CD-WORM	write once, read many  1. Compact optical disc storage media that can be read but not modified or erased after recording.  2. An optical drive type.
wrapper	wrapper	A descriptive term that means that the interface program "wraps" several systems together for ready access to data.
write	Écrire	In the Common Desktop Environment CDE, a permission, as in Read, Write, Execute.
write	Écrire	Short for "Write right."
write once, read many	CD-WORM	WORM
write protected	protégé en écriture	Restricted from erasing or editing a disk file.
write right	droit Écrire	W  A NetWare file system or property right.  In the file system, the trustee can open and write to a file or directory. In the case of individual files in a directory, the trustee can open and modify them unless rights assigned at the file level block the Write right.  In the case of a multivalued property, the trustee can add, change, or remove values. The Write property right implies the Add Self property right.
write through	écriture immédiate	A disk or memory caching mode that supports the caching of writing. Data written by the CPU to memory or to disk is also written into the cache. Write performance is not improved with this method. However, if a subsequent read operation needs that same data, read performance is improved, because the data is already in the high-speed cache.
write-back	écriture différée	A caching method in which the modifications are only written to the cache; they are not copied to the main memory until absolutely necessary (compare with write-through)
write-through	écriture immédiate	A caching method in which the modifications are written to both the cache and main memory. Compare with write-back.
Writing Tools Language	langue des outils d'aide à la rédaction	In the GroupWise client, a language of spell checker.
WTD	WTD	
x	x	Initialism for "Execute Only attribute."
X.400 Gateway	Passerelle X.400	This gateway, combined with the GroupWise client, provides GroupWise users with an X.400-compliant UA and lets GroupWise users exchange messages with other systems conforming to the X.400 standard. X.400 is an international messaging standard that opens communication between computer users on a variety of computer systems.
x.509 certificate	certificat X.509	Certificate according to a particular standard. (Please specify which.)
xerox network systems	XNS (Xerox Network Systems)	XNS  A protocol on which Novell IPX is based. One major difference between IPX and XNS is that they do not use the same ethernet encapsulation format. A second difference is that IPX uses Novells proprietary Service Advertisement Protocol SAP.
XML	XML	XML (Extensible Markup Language) is a formal recommendation from the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). XML allows you to create common information formats and share both the format and the data on the Web.
XML addressing language	langage d'adressage XML	A language used for addressing in XML.
XML Map component	composant d'assignation XML	An object that accepts one or more XML documents as inputs, uses a collection of actions to operate on these inputs and returns an XML document as output.
XML Schema Definition	définition de schéma XML	Define the rules of an XML document, including element names and rich data types, which elements can appear in combination, and which attributes are available for each element.
XML stub document	document modèle XML	XML document that can be used as a template.
XML Template Editor	éditeur de modèle XML	An interface that allows a user to edit XML template in Composer, rather than using an external editor.
XML Validation Document	document de validation XML	Documents that can be used to validate XML documents. DTD (Document Type Definition) and XSD (XML Schema Definition) files.
XML-in/XML-out	entrée/sortie XML	Using XML both on input and output.
XSL	XSL	XSL (Extensible Stylesheet Language) is a language that describes how data sent over the Web using the XML is to be presented to the user.
XSLT	XSLT	XSLT (XSL Transformations) is a standard way to describe how to transform (change) the structure of an XML (Extensible Markup Language) document into an XML document with a different structure. XSLT is used to describe how to transform the source tree or data structure of an XML document into the result tree for a new XML document, which can be completely different in structure.
yield call	appel de cession	A call made by a thread to invite other cooperative threads to get control of the CPU. In other words, the calling thread yields CPU control to the other threads that are ready to take control.
ZENPartition mode	mode ZENPartition	In ZENworks for Desktops, an imaging mode that allows administrators to enable, disable, or remove the installed ZENworks for Desktops imaging partition.
ZENworks	ZENworks	A ConsoleOne snapin utility that is an integrated suite of utilities for distributing and managing applications, configuring and managing workstation and Windows desktops, and remotely repairing workstation software. ZENworks reduces the total cost of ownership for networked computers by leveraging the information in NDS. ZEN stands for Zero Effort Networking
ZENworks Desktop Management	ZENworks Desktop Management	A naming used for any of the ZENworks products shipping within the Midas suite 6.5. Each product, if shipped as a standalone (i.e., outside the Suite), is called with its regular name (i.e. ZENworks for Desktops, ZENworks for HandHelds, etc.)
ZENworks for Desktops (ZfD)	Novell ZENworks for Desktops	ZfD. A policy-based desktop management tool that simplifies network administration by leveraging Novell eDirectory to automate and streamline software distribution, software repair, desktop configuration, workstation imaging, remote management, and workstation inventory.
ZENworks for Desktops Management Agent policy	règle de l'agent de gestion ZENworks for Desktops	In ZENworks for Desktops, the policy for configuring the ZENworks for Desktops Management Agent, which allows use of ZENworks for Desktops 4 without the Novell Client. The policy is part of the Workstation package.
ZENworks Handheld Management	ZENworks Handheld Management	Novell ZENworks for Handhelds provides centralized administration for Palm*, Windows* CE, Pocket PC and BlackBerry* handhelds to help you address your mobile business needs by standardizing, deploying and managing software and configurations across your entire organization. ZENworks for Handhelds allows you to centrally enforce the use of passwords, deploy standard images and content, update applications, identify lost devices, lockdown configurations, monitor license compliance and more.
ZENworks Linux Management	ZENworks Linux Management	The ZENworks capability, provided by Ximian® Red Carpet EnterpriseTM 2.2, that enables you to centrally control Linux software configurations for both servers and workstations, including the ability to manage users and organize groups of machines for installations and updates; Integrate with leading software update systems such as SUSE YaST and Red Hat Network; roll back software packages to pre-update versions if unintended problems are caused by the update; and automatically resolve software package requirements before updating to ensure that all dependencies are met. Formerly known as Ximian Red Carpet Enterprise.  Starting with ZENworks 6.5, Red Carpet has been rebranded ZENworks Linux Management.
ZENworks Server Management	ZENworks Server Management	ZENworks Server Management simplifies network management tasks by allowing IT professionals to capture and automate key server-administrative processes, thus creating a more self-managing network. This improves management efficiency and allows you to focus on strategic initiatives instead of routine server maintenance.
ZENworks Starter Pack	ZENworks Starter Pack	If you’ve been using the ZENworks Starter Pack to manage applications and workstations on your network, you’ve already experienced some of the cost saving benefits that ZENworks for Desktops provides.
ZeroG	ZeroG	A Novell service that is a server-based install with options to install all services on a single server or across distributed servers
zip code	code postal	The five-digit number used by the postal services to identify a city, town or village.
zone	zone	A logical grouping of devices that are physically located on one or more networks. Each nonextended network must have exactly one zone name assigned to it. Each extended network must have at least one zone name or up to 255 zone names assigned to it.
zone array	tableau de zones	An ordered arrangement of zones with data organized in rows an columns.
zone information protocol	protocole ZIP	ZIP  An AppleTalk protocol that enables each router to maintain and access zone information for an AppleTalk internet. It also enables non-router nodes to obtain zone information.
zone information table	table d'informations de zone (ZIT)	ZIT  A complete table of network-number-to-zone-mappings maintained by each router in an AppleTalk internet.
zone-in	transfert de données de zone vers les NDS	DNS servers can exchange information. Zone-in is the process of transfering information INTO the server.
zoom	faire un zoom sur	1. To enlarge or reduce a specific area of an object. Often used for detailed editing.  2. To expand or reduce the image of a document or graphic on the screen. Zooming does not change the actual size of the text or graphics.
zoom in	faire un zoom avant	To enlarge a specific area of an object.
zoom out	faire un zoom arrière	To reduce a specific area of an object.
zstring	ZSTRING	A special string type in Btrieve that corresponds to a C string. It has the same characteristics as a regular string type except that a zstring type is terminated by a byte containing a binary 0. Btrieve ignores any values beyond the first binary 0 it encounters in a zstring except when Btrieve is determining whether a key value is null.
